--- Source page 1 ---

Under the Department of Environment and Environmental Change

My Vasundhara Mission Directorate and

Creation of Project Management Classroom.

Maharashtra government

Department of Environment and Environmental Change

Government decision, campaign number 2020 / Procedure 173 / tan.k.1

Shahid Bhagat Singh Square, Madam Kama Road,

Ministry, Mumbai 400032

dated December 4, 2020

Read: Governance Decisions, Environment and Environmental Change Division No.

Pr.C.134/ TANK-1, dated 14th October, 2020

The preface:

To establish commitment to nature, earth, gas, water, fire, and ash

The Department of Environment and Climate Change is working on five aspects related to nature.

Including local self-government bodies, nature-related measures based on five pillars.

My Vasundhara is a campaign in the state to embrace a sustainable natural lifestyle.

The reference date for implementation has been approved by the Governing Body on 14th October 2020.

Accordingly, to effectively monitor and evaluate the implementation of my Vasundhara campaign.

Establishment of Independent Campaign Directorate and Project Management Room at Government level

It was under consideration by the government.

Government decision:

In view of the provisions of the resolution,

My Vasundhara Campaign at the state level for effective monitoring and evaluation of implementation

The Directorate shall be established and operated under the Department of Environment and Climate Change.

approving.

1) Chief of the Directorate of the newly constituted My Vasundhara Mission

There will be directors.

2) Project Management Room to assist the campaign directors

The Government is approving the operation of the Unit (PMU).

3) As for my Vasundhara Mission Directorate and Project Management classroom below.

Services of officers and experts available on contract basis through Maharashtra Pollution Control Board

The Government is authorised to:

(i)

The campaign director,

1 पद

(ii)

Project Managers and Technical Experts

1 पद

Departmental Coordinator

(iii)

3 पदे

--- Source page 2 ---

Governance Decree No: Campaign 2020 / Procedure 173 / Than.k.1

(Gv) Information, education and broadcasting expert 1 post

7 Information technology specialists 1 post

(vi) Environmentalist 1 post

(vii) Sectional technical specialists 6 posts

Writer-writer 2 posts

(ix) Soldier 1 post

4) The salaries and allowances of all the above contracted personnel shall be funded by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board.

Let's get it right.

5) Qualifications, experience and manpower required for all of the above contractual services

It will be decided by the Secretary, Department of Environment and Climate Change.

2. Effective monitoring and evaluation of my Vasundhara Campaign by local authorities.

Capacity building, awareness raising, information education and communication, coordination with various departments, publicity promotion,

In line with the implementation of the Mission, involvement of nongovernmental organizations and under the Mission

My Vasundhara Mission Directorate works in line with the Competition of Local Self-Government Organizations.

I will.

The Government of Maharashtra has taken a decision on the website www.maharshtra.gov.in.

The code is 202012071655023004.

The order is being issued with a digital signature.

By order and name of the Governor of Maharashtra.

SURYAKANT KISAN soem

(Laughter)

Deputy Secretary, Government of Maharashtra

A copy,

1. Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, Ministry, Mumbai.

2. Minister, Private Secretary, Environment and Climate Change.

3. Minister of State, Private Secretary, Environment and Climate Change.

4. Ma. Chief Secretary, Ministry, Mumbai.

5. Principal Secretary, Department of Environment and Climate Change, Ministry, Mumbai.

6. All departmental commissioners

7. All the district governors.

8. Member Secretary, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, Mumbai

9. All CEOs, District Council

10. Commissioner, all the municipalities.

11. Chief Magistrate, all city councils/ city panchayats.

12. Selection

Page 2 of 2