--- Source page 1 ---

Maharashtra Electric Vehicle Policy, 2021.

Maharashtra government

Department of Environment and Environmental Change

Governance Decree No.: Miwadho-2021/P.R. 25/Tan.K.4

Houtattma Rajguru Square, Madam Kama Road, Ministry, Mumbai 400 032

Date: July 23, 2021.

Government Decision, Department of Industry, Energy and Labour, No.

The date is February 14, 2018.

The preamble is:

The use of electric vehicles under the Sustainable Development Goals (1)

Affordable and Clean Energy, (2) efficient use and production of resources

(Responsible Consumption and Production) and (iii) Climate action in line with climate change

Maharashtra's Electric Vehicles Policy is a key element in achieving its objectives.

It was announced in February 2018 by the Governing Decree dated February 14, 2018.

Policies include adoption of electric vehicles in the state and acceleration of production of financial and non-financial vehicles.

Financial incentives were announced, and they have been updated over time by strengthening the policy.

There was a need to do so, so that the state could develop an improved policy on electric vehicles.

Department of Governance Decisions, Environment and Environmental Change No.MCA 2020/ Pro.167/ C.A.2, dated 22 December,

The Task Force was constituted under the chairmanship of the Additional Chief Secretary, Transport in 2020.

The Sadhar Committee, having examined all the relevant aspects, has prepared the Maharashtra Electric Vehicle Policy, 2021.

Subsequently, the Amended Policy Committee referred the matter to the Department of Environment and Climate Change on 14.6.2021.

Presented by the Task Force, chaired by Deputy Chief Secretary, Transport

Implementation of Maharashtra Electric Vehicle Policy, 2021 in the State is under consideration by the Government.

होती.

Decisions of the Government:-

Taking into account the provisions of the Resolution, the Government is approving the implementation of the following Maharashtra Electric Vehicle Policy, 2021 in the State from the date of its enactment till 31st March, 2025.

--- Source page 2 ---

Governance Decree No: Miwadho-2021/P.R. 25/Tan.K.4

Maharashtra Electric Vehicle Policy, 2021:

2.1 Vision and Campaign:

2.1. 1 vision:

1) Adoption of sustainable and pollution-free vehicles.

2 To make the country a leader in the use of State Electric Vehicles.

3) Maintain the state's leading position in automotive manufacturing in India.

2.1.2 Mission:

1) Increasing procurement and consumption of electric vehicles in the State through demand incentives

To bring about a favourable change in transport conditions in the state.

2) Promote production by attracting investment through incentives for manufacturers, by setting up electric vehicle manufacturing factories as well as advanced chemistry cell (ACC) batteries, electric vehicle spare parts and recycling factories in the state.

2.2 Policy Objectives:

1) Maharashtra Electric Vehicle Policy 2021 main objective is to increase the use of battery electric vehicles in new vehicle registration by 2025.

2) By 2025, there will be six states: Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Amravati, Aurangabad and Nashik.

At least 25 per cent of public transport vehicles in polluted areas are battery electric vehicles.

It's got to be something.

3) By 2025, there will be six states: Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Amravati, Aurangabad and Nashik.

Fleet Operator, Fleet grouping in polluted wer groups

Aggregator and Last Mile Delivery at least 25 per cent

Vehicles should be battery electric vehicle type.

4) Minimum number of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) bus crews by 2025.

15 per cent of vehicles should be battery electric vehicles.

Maharashtra is the leading producer of electric vehicles in India in terms of production capacity.

to do.

6) Set up at least one gigafactory for the manufacture of advanced chemistry cell (ACC) battery in the state

to do.

2 out of 16

--- Source page 3 ---

Governance Decree No: Miwadho-2021/P.R. 25/Tan.K.4

2.3 Policy Gals (Targets):

7) Research and development (R&D) for electric vehicles and their components in the State; and

Planning of skill development.

The policy objectives for the dissemination of electric vehicle technology are as follows:-

TQTA-1 Policy Millions

A.A.R. details Lakshman Shara

(1) At least 10 per cent new in the State by 2025

Two-wheeled vehicles account for at least one-third of all registered electric vehicles.

At least three-wheeled Qo percent expected share

Four-wheelers at least 5 percent

Two, by 2025, the state's largest employer in the civic sector.

E-commerce companies, consumer distributors.

Transport/equipment of the civilian fleet operated by the Fleet.

Aggregator) at least 25 percent of electric vehicles, transportation and vehicle owners.

It applies to them.

(2) Buses 1. Mumbai, Amravati, Nagpur, Pune

Aurangabad and Nashik Yasha

In the target groups, 2025

Up to 25 of public transport

To achieve 100% electrification.

2. of M.R.M.P.M (॥7pa07)

15 percent of the bus fleet will be buses.

The battery should be electric.

Four. Charging infrastructure cities: One, three kilometers, three percent of the area.

The facility will be public by 2025, and at least one public charging.

A semi-public charging station, or

Below are the lakhs of stations:

Brihanmumbai Har Group - 1500

Pune Hahar Group - 500

Nagpur Hahar Group - 150

Nashik city group - 100

Aurangabad city group - 75

Amravati - 30

Solapur - 20

2) per million people

At least 50 charging stations,

The highest of these,

Installing.

3 out of 16

--- Source page 4 ---

Government Decision No: Miwada-2021/PRK 25/TANK.4 A.K.R Details Lakshkan Shera Highway- By 2025, the following four.3) Highways/Expressways on both sides of the highway will be completed: Equipment of electric vehicle charging facilities with public charging stations at a distance of 25 km each.

1) Three-wheel and four-wheeled vehicles include passenger and freight vehicles.

2) E-commerce companies include companies such as Amazon, Flipkart etc. Consumer goods distributors include carriers such as Zomato, Kash and other courier and freight companies and transport groups such as Ola, Uber, Black Yellow Taxis etc.

2.4 Electric Vehicles and other related incentives:

2.4.1 Demand incentives:

Department of Transportation:

1) Specifying the process of distribution of all the following incentives under this Policy (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e):

Operational Guidelines for availing demand incentive

4 out of 16

--- Source page 5 ---

Governance Decree No: Miwadho-2021/P.R. 25/Tan.K.4

Sadhar Government dismissed from the Department of Transport within 15 days from the date of the ruling.

They will.

2) State incentives are FAME 2 (Faster Adoption and Sustainable Development)

Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles - Phase II (in addition to incentives)

These incentives will continue to be licensed to vehicle manufacturers (AUTO OEMs).

Vehicle models approved under the FAME-2 scheme will be eligible for this incentive.

If the Government of India makes changes to the FAME-2 Scheme, the changes will also apply to this Scheme.

3) The incentives will be available to vehicle buyers during purchase and by making them available to them.

Vehicle manufacturers will be responsible for the delivery.

8) The incentive distribution method (demand incentives, incentives to withdraw vehicles, charging infrastructure incentive, supplies incentive etc.) for the timely and transparent transfer of incentive to vehicle manufacturers will be handled through an online portal.

E-Commerce Companies, Consumer Distributors/Transporters and Transport Collectors are required to submit an EV Transition Action Plan to the Department of Transport within six months from the date of the Governing Decision.

(a) Basic Demand Incentives:

The basic demand incentives will remain as per vehicle battery capacity as per Tier 2.

Demand incentives for TQTA-2 electric vehicles

A. Vehicle type incentives are available. Get incentives.

No. (ru.॥at/॥) Number of incentive vehicles that can be used (rupees)

(1) E-two wheels (WH 1W L 2 5000 1,00,000 10,000)

Two e-Tricycle Auto (L5M) 5,000 15,000 30,000

(3) E-Tricycle Freight Vehicle (L5000 10,000 30,000)

5 एन)

Fourth, the four-wheeled car (M1) 5,000 10,000 1,50,000

(e) E-bike freight vehicle (N1) 5000 10,000 1,00,000

(6) e-buses* The cost of the vehicle is 1,000 to 20,000,000

10 percent * *

feu:

* WER Promotion will be extended to BAT VACTY (State Transport Undertaking): ** Factory/Price

5 out of 16

--- Source page 6 ---

Governance Decree No: Miwadho-2021/P.R. 25/Tan.K.4

1)

»)

Electric vehicles sold with batteries will remain eligible for full (100%) basic incentives.

For electric vehicles sold without batteries, 50 per cent of the basic incentive will be paid for this vehicle.

It will be given to the manufacturer, who will be obliged to transfer the vehicle to the buyer.

Basic Incentive Amount (up to 50 per cent) is the contract between the purchaser of the vehicle in respect of the battery.

Battery Swapping Company/ Operator will be assigned to an approved Energy Operator.

(b) Early Bird Incentives:

1)

Registering electric vehicles (other than e-buses) before 31st December 2021

Buyer of this vehicle extra Rs 5000/kWh based on battery capacity Early Bird discount

This discount is in addition to the Demand Incentive mentioned in Table 2.

The maximum immediate registration discount will be limited to Rs 1,00,000 per vehicle.

(a) Vehicle Scrappage incentive:

1)

Incentives for removing underclass vehicles (5899005996 Incentive) are described in Table 3.

The government will reimburse the incentives for removing vehicles.

The following items are required:

7 Consistent contributions from sellers or manufacturers for scrappage of old vehicles

(equal monetary contribution from dealer or OEM)

Confirmation of conversion of Sas fuel vehicle of the same vehicle type

Table 3 Incentives for moving vehicles below class

There's an incentive to turn a car around.

E-two-wheelers up to Rs 7,000.

There's an e-three wheel (L5M and LL5N) up to 15,000 rupees.

Three e-wheels up to 25,000.

(d) Battery warranty and assured buyback incentives

incentives):

1)

In order to eliminate this suspicion, Maharashtra Electric Vehicle Policy, 2021 will provide additional incentives (which are to be transferred to customers) to electric vehicle manufacturers in accordance with Schedule IV.

6 out of 16

--- Source page 7 ---

Governance Decree No: Miwadho-2021/P.R. 25/Tan.K.4

2) Vehicle manufacturers will provide a minimum of five years warranty for electric vehicle batteries.

Accordingly, additional incentives will be eligible.

3)

Vehicle manufacturers will give their buyers a guarantee of buyback.

Under Section 4, additional incentives will be eligible.

8)

Electric vehicle manufacturers will be able to take both incentives at the same time.

The amount shall be limited to Rs. 12,000 per vehicle, as set out in Table 2.

In addition to the incentives, and after considering all the above incentives

Based on.

Level 4 promises of back-up and battery guarantee incentives

A.K.

A description of the incentives

Incentives

(1)

Buyback (up to 4)

6 per cent of the total cost of the vehicle

years with a depreciation rate not more

(Limit of Rs 10,000)

than 9.4%)

(2)

At least five years of battery warranty

4 per cent of the total cost of the vehicle

(Limit of Rs 6,000)

(e) Other Demand Incentives:

1)

All battery electric vehicles sold and registered in the state till the end of the policy period.

Exemption from motor vehicle tax will be granted through the Department of Transport.

They will be expelled.

र)

State sales as notified by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways dated 18th June 2019

to issue a registration certificate for all registered electric vehicles or

Discount is being given from the provision of fees for renovation/renovation.

3)

The individual buyer knows how to get a promotion only once for the respective vehicle type.

Collectors/Directors are entitled to receive transport incentives for their ownership.

This will be detailed in the operational guidelines.

8)

State governments are consumers of battery electric vehicles such as e-autos, freight vehicles and taxis.

Commitment to financial institutions and banks to provide special interest rates for sectors and

It will encourage.

4)

Batteries owned by vehicle owners, consumer delivery carriers, tool material carriers

Ensure fast and timebound registration of EV fleet

It will.

7 out of 16

--- Source page 8 ---

Governance Decree No: Miwadho-2021/P.R. 25/Tan.K.4

6) Registration of battery electric vehicle of any vehicle type in the state shall be by green number plate.

Green number plate will be made.

7) As per the notification of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, Government of India dated 18th October 2018, no licence will be required for e-Auto and the provisions of the notification will be strictly adhered to.

8) Local transportation: City specific restrictions on auto rickshaws

Depending on the situation, e-auto rides will also be applicable.

2.4.2 Incentives for Charging Infrastructure Development

Incentives) :

(9) Department of Energy:

1) Public and semi-public charging stations (PCS) and

Semi- Public Charging Stations (SPCS) as specified in Table 5 below,

They will be eligible for incentives for the creation of charging infrastructure under the policy.

Incentives for TQTA-5 Charging Infrastructure

A.C. PCS/SPCS I incentive. I get incentive for every 5/5205

The maximum amount of incentives available for income is the maximum number of PCS/SPCS

(1) 60 Rs.10,000 15,000 of slowing costs

It's only the cost of the Warning Stadium (Md land cost and other ancillary costs for installing the Charning PEST).

2) Head Charging Stations is the start of operation of the station.

Operational guidelines (OERs) are not eligible for incentives.

Guidelines for Charging Infrastructure Incentives

Eligibility criteria will be clarified and power will be provided within 15 days from the date of decision.

However, FAME 2 Charging Infrastructure Incentives will benefit from

8 out of 16

--- Source page 9 ---

Government Decision No: Public and semi-public charging stations taking Miwadho-2021/PRK 25/TN.K.4 will not be eligible for the above incentives.

3) The State Coordination Agency (Nodal Agency) will be set up through the Department of Energy and implemented by developing an Integrated Charging Infra. Plan to set up electric vehicle charging facilities.

4) Charging Infrastructure Service Providers will be allowed to set up charging stations in the States according to their business plans.

5) Ministry of Energy, Government of India Electric Vehicle Charging is a service as specified by the Government. In cases where any charging station is a government (hs or state) incentive (financial or otherwise) installed cabinets, service providers will be required to comply with any regulations regarding service volumes notified by the State Coordination Agency (Nodal Agency) / State Government/Appropriate Commission.

6) For all electric vehicle charging stations and battery transfer stations in the state (Battery)

The applicable electricity rates are set by the Maharashtra State Electricity Regulatory Commission.

(MERC) as issued by Order No. 322/2019 dated 30 March 2020

Or future MERCs will remain in force as per the order.

7) Charging service providers will be encouraged to provide information and direct use of all public charging systems available in the public domain, a centralised EV Charging Station Management Portal and Cashless Transaction THIS User Application (Android, iOS and/or others) to be made available by the Department of Energy/ State Coordinating Committee.

(2) Department of Urban Development and other departments:

1) Local self-government bodies will encourage residential property holders to set up private electric vehicle charging facility by offering specific exemptions in property tax. Detailed regulations in this regard will be issued by the Department of Urban Development under the guidance of the Energy Department/State Coordinating Institute.

9 out of 16

--- Source page 10 ---

Governance Decree No: Miwadho-2021/P.R. 25/Tan.K.4

र)

All Local Self-Governments in Maharashtra are required to develop a plan at the next level in terms of complementary infrastructure for battery electric vehicle distribution by 2025. Under the Maharasha Electric Vehicle Policy, 2021, the Charging Stations for Electric Vehicles are being declared as Amenity. Accordingly, the Plots (including the existing Fuel Institutions) and Charging stations are expected to be set up by the Municipal Development Agencies to set up charging infrastructure at discounted rates (Installation) and be available to various Government/Land Owners/Agencies.

Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Government of India (MOHUA, Govt. of India) has issued amendments to the Building Code and City Development Plan rules in 2019 to provide electric vehicle charging stations in private and commercial buildings.

The Fifteenth Finance Commission (151 Finance Commission (07) has allocated grants to six cities of Maharashtra: Brihanmumbai Urban Group, Pune, Nagpur, Nashik, Aurangabad and Wassi-Virar for 2020-21 to meet the City Action Plans for improving air quality under the National Clean Air Program.

The six cities groups identified above will create Low Emission Zones as determined and notified by the Local Government Authorities of these cities, which will be implemented by the Department of Urban Development and the relevant Local Self-Government Authorities in this regard.

Page 16 out of 10

--- Source page 11 ---

Governance Decree No: Miwadho-2021/P.R. 25/Tan.K.4

&)

Local authorities, subject to local transport conditions, shall be provided with electricity.

In this regard, incentives will be given to prioritize lanes and parking for vehicles.

The Department of Development and the relevant Civic Local Government Authorities will be responsible for the implementation of the Scheme.

It will be enforced.

7)

New residential buildings will have at least 20 per cent of their total parking space electrified.

Vehicle charging facilities will be compulsory to be equipped, of which 30 per cent will be

Not allocated to the owner of a shared parking space or private residence hall.

In this regard, the Department of Urban Development and related local self-government bodies should have parking spaces.

They will make a plan and destroy it.

8)

New residential project developers, electric vehicle charging facility from 2022

In this regard, the Department of Urban Development and related departments will be required to provide an option to purchase equipped parking.

Local self-government bodies will develop and implement the scheme.

8)

Public Parking Plazas occupy at least 25 per cent of their total capacity by 2023

Electric vehicles will be converted into places equipped for charging facilities.

Implementation by the Department of Development and related Local Self-Government Institutions through the development of Scheme

They will.

10) All institutional and commercial complexes by 2023, of their total parking space

At least 25 per cent of seats converted into equipped seats for electric vehicle charging facilities.

In this regard, the Urban Development Department and the relevant Local Self-Government Authorities will prepare plans.

And they will implement it.

11) All government offices will have 100 per cent of their total parking space by 2025.

Electric vehicles will be converted into equipped parking facilities for charging facilities.

92) All future public parking allocated in the auction/bidding process

The facility will provide free parking for all electric vehicles.

The relevant local self-government bodies will develop and implement the scheme.

13) Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation / Department of Public Works / other relevant departments

To set up charging infrastructure on major national and state highways.

Locations need to be determined.

2.4.3 Producer sector incentives:

(1) Department of Industry

Provision of other components related to electric vehicle manufacturing and R&D in the State

The Government of Maharashtra has set itself the objective of attracting investment for development.

1) Electric vehicle related manufacturing and R&D centers in the state (spare parts manufacturing,

Vehicle matching, battery matching battery cell manufacturing electronic parts manufacturing electric vehicle

11 out of 16

--- Source page 12 ---

Governance Decree No: Miwadho-2021/P.R. 25/Tan.K.4

Manufacturers will be incentivized to install electric vehicle batteries, etc. All benefits under the []-- category of visa projects, regardless of the location of the manufacturing plant in the state, will be given to these industries. These incentives will be in effect from the date of the decision of the State Government and will be distributed by the Department of Industry of State Government. Operational guidelines for supply side incentives in this regard will be issued by the department of Industry within 15 days

2) Government of India to manufacture advanced chemistry cell (Acc) battery for manufacturing

The Promotion Scheme (PL) has been proposed on 12th May 2021.

At least one gigafactory for the production of advanced chemistry cells by 2023.

Attracting is the objective of the State Government to deliver under the PL! scheme of the Government of India.

The amount of incentives received will be significantly increased / consistent, so that competitive

Jasan will try to give incentives.

3) The State aims to create a comprehensive system for removing eco-friendly vehicles (including electric vehicles) and plans to develop a policy on removal of vehicles, which will be notified in due course through the State Transport Dept.

2.5 Innovation training and job creation:

1) Planning of business curricula (Syllabus Development) of Government related/interested vehicle manufacturers, service providers in partnership on electric vehicles and educational institutions and the creation of peer manpower from various industrial institutions.

2) In this regard, various departments of Higher and Technical Education as well as the Department of Corporate Development and Entrepreneurship

The next plan will be drawn up through extensive consultation with relevant stakeholders.

3) Electric under the Maharashtra State Innovation Society

Automotive startups will be encouraged.

2.6 Government vehicles:

1) From 1st April, 2022, all vehicles operated within cities, purchased through government, semi-governmental, local self-governing bodies and from government funds will be battery electric vehicles.

Page 16 of 12

--- Source page 13 ---

Government Decision No: Miwadho-2021/PRC 25/TAN.K.4 Batteries will be electric. Accordingly, necessary reforms to the Government Vehicle Purchasing Policy will be implemented through the Ministry of Finance.

2.7 Zero Emission Vehicles (ZEV) credit programme

1) Describe the necessity and details of the ZEV programme for the State and

Implementation will be carried out through the Department of Transport.

2.8 Awareness Campaign:

1) A public awareness programme through the State Government, in partnership with vehicle manufacturers and various social organisations, will be developed and disseminated through State Governments to create and promote widespread public aware of electric vehicles and their benefits and incentives available under State and Union policies.

3. Implementation control mechanism:

3.1 To monitor and guide the implementation of Maharashtra Electric Vehicle Policy, 2021

588119 Committee is being constituted as follows:

Chief Secretary, Chairman of Government of Maharashtra

(2) Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Transport, Ministry, Mumbai Member

(3) Principal Secretary, (Industry), Department of Industry, Energy and Labour, Ministry, Mumbai Member

(4) Principal Secretary (Niv-2), Department of Urban Development, Ministry, Mumbai Member

(4) Principal Secretary (Department of Energy, Industry, Energy and Labour, Ministry, Mumbai Member

(6) Principal Secretary, Department of Environment and Climate Change, Ministry, Mumbai Member Secretary

(7 Government nominated industry representatives and/or expert members

3.1.1 The Sadhar Sukanu Committee will take measures to overcome the obstacles in the implementation of Maharashtra Electric Vehicles Policy, 2021, as well as reform the policy as required, and will also consider promoting emerging technologies (e.g. AVS cell vehicles, etc.) in the future.

3.2 Sewing Committee Establishment of Sub-Committee or Special Task Force for Priority Areas as Required

I will.

3.3 The Government is approving the creation of Maharashtra Electric Vehicles Subdivision under the Department of Transport to assist the Sukanu Committee.

Page 16 of 13

--- Source page 14 ---

Governance Decree No: Miwadho-2021/P.R. 25/Tan.K.4

Similarly, experts and professionals will be included in this sub-section.

No new jobs will be created in any case.

Responsible for the day-to-day running of policies.

3.4 Strict control and coordination of Maharashtra Electric Vehicle Policy, 2021 Environment and Environment

The changes will be implemented through the Department of Environment and Environmental Change.

- Control and Coordination Group will be formed.

3.5 Maharashtra Electric Vehicle Policy, Section for various incentives and enforcement in 2021

Responsibilities will be as follows: A.

The incentives for demand will be distributed through the Department of Industry until the relevant accounts are transferred to the Transport Department.

(2) Incentives to build charging infrastructure.

(3) Production sector incentives

(Applause) The Department of Higher and Technical Education and Skills

Department of Development and Entrepreneurship

छ.

The funds required for the implementation of Maharashtra Electric Vehicles Policy, 2021 are old.

Such as green tax levied for registration of vehicles, equipment on GVAI fuel, etc.

It will be available through various channels.

Rs. coming in next 4 years to implement Maharashtra Electric Vehicle Policy, 2021

Government has approved expenditure of Rs. 930 crore.

Through incentives for the creation of charging infrastructure through the Department of Energy, incentives in the manufacturing sector.

They will be distributed through the Industry Department in paragraphs 2.4.1, 2.4.2 and 2.4.3 above.

The maximum amount of incentives available to these departments for the defined incentives is Rs.

(Amount) and maximum vehicle number/charging facility number.

Page 16 of 14

--- Source page 15 ---

Governance Decree No: Miwadho-2021/P.R. 25/Tan.K.4

6. Financing with the consent of the Department of Transport, Industry, Energy and Finance.

Unofficial reference number of the Department 1781/ Secretary (Expenditure), dated 28th June, 2021 and of the Cabinet

It is being discharged as approved.

9. Good Governance Decisions are available on the website of the Government of Maharashtra at www.maharashtr.gov.in.

The order, code 202107231413587504, has been digitally signed.

It's being verified.

Manisha Patankar is being loaned by the Governor of Maharashtra.

र

. 2.5.4.20=fef2886076676dbebee07d0f1af741 4b764ea7e53ecaa

h a l 55 a r 48a423e4054ca267ca6, cn=Manisha ki

Date: 2021.07.23 13:22:12 +05'30'

(Manisha Patankar-Mhaskar) Principal Secretary, Government of Maharashtra

to copy,

1, Principal Secretary to the Governor, Raj Bhavan, Mumbai

2. Deputy Chief Secretary to the Chief Minister, Ministry, Mumbai 32.

3. Secretary to the Deputy Chief Minister, Ministry, Mumbai 32.

4. Minister of Industry, Private Secretary, Ministry, Mumbai-32

5. Minister, Transport, Private Secretary of the Ministry, Mumbai-32

6. Minister, Energy, Private Secretary, Ministry, Mumbai-32

7. Minister, Private Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Climate Change, Mumbai-32.

8. Minister, Private Secretary for Skills and Entrepreneurship, Ministry, Mumbai-32

9. Minister, His Private Secretary, Ministry, Mumbai-32 (all others)

10. Minister of State, Private Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Climate Change, Mumbai-32.

11. Ma. Minister of State, Private Secretary to Industry, Ministry, Mumbai-32.

12. Ma. Private Secretary to Minister of State, Energy, Ministry, Mumbai-32.

13. Ma. Private Secretary to the Minister of State, Transport, Ministry, Mumbai-32.

14. Ma. Minister of State, His Private Secretary, Ministry, Mumbai-32 (all others)

15. Mr. Speaker, Secretary to the Legislative Council, Bima Bhavan, Mumbai

16. Ma. Speaker, Assembly, Secretary to the Legislative Assembly, Bima Bhawan, Mumbai

17. Ma. Leader of Opposition, Private Secretary to the Legislative Assembly, Bima Bhawan, Mumbai

18.M. Leader of Opposition, Private Secretary to the Legislative Council, Legislation Bhavan, Mumbai

19, all members of the Legislative Council, Legislation Bhavan, Mumbai

20. Ma. Chief Secretary, Ministry, Mumbai-32.

21. Deputy Chief Secretary, Department of Transport, Ministry, Mumbai-32

22. Deputy Chief Secretary, (Niv-1) Department of Urban Development, Ministry, Mumbai-32

23. Principal Secretary, Department of Industry, Ministry, Mumbai-32

24. Principal Secretary, (Niv-2) Department of Urban Development, Ministry, Mumbai-32

25. Principal Secretary, Department of Planning, Ministry, Mumbai-32

26. Principal Secretary, Department of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, Ministry, Mumbai-32

Page 16 of 15

--- Source page 16 ---

Governance Decree No: Miwadho-2021/P.R. 25/Tan.K.4

27. Secretary, Department of Finance and Development, Ministry, Mumbai-32

28.Secretary, Ministry of Energy, Mumbai-32

29. Accountant General State of Maharashtra, Mumbai / Nagpur

30. Residential accounting examination officer, Mumbai

31. Chairman, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, Mumbai

32. Member Secretary, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, Mumbai

33. All departmental commissioners

34. All the District Governors

35. All Municipalities

36. All CEOs, District Council

37. All Ministries Departments, Ministries, Mumbai - 32

38. All Chief Magistrates, Municipalities and Nagar Panchayats

39. All Group Development Officers, Panchayat Committees

40. All village development officers / village servants, village panchayat

41. Directorate General, Directorate of Information and Public Relations (for popularity)

42. Director, Mumbai Doordarshan (for fame).

43. Selection.

Page 16 of 16

--- Source page 17 ---

Maharashtra Electric Vehicle Policy, 2021.

Government of Maharashtra

Environment and Climate Change Department

Government Resolution No.: MSEVP-2021/CR 25/TC 4

Hutatma Rajguru Chowk, Madam Cama Road,

Mantralaya, Mumbai — 400 032

Date: 23rd July, 2021

Read :- Government Resolution, Industries, Energy and Labour Dept.,

No.188/Industry-2, dated 14" February, 2018

Preamble:

Use of electric vehicles is an important component in achieving the Sustainable

Development Goals — (1) Affordable and Clean Energy (SDG-7); (2) Responsible Consumption

and Production (SDG -/2); and (3) Climate Action (SDG-13). Maharashtra Electric Vehicle

Policy was issued in February 2018, vide Government Resolution dated 14 February, 2018

under reference as mentioned above. This policy included fiscal and non-fiscal provisions for

adoption of electric vehicles in the state and for increasing the production capacity. To

formulate a revised policy of state electric vehicles, the Committee (Task Force) was constituted

Government Resolution, Environment and Climate Change Department No. MCA 2020/

Procurement No.167/ TANK2, dated 22 December 2020 under the chairmanship of Additional Chief Secretary

(Transport). The committee examined all aspects in this regard and developed Maharashtra

Electric Vehicle Policy, 2021.The revise policy was submitted by the Committee to

Environment and Climate Change Department on 14" June, 2021. The matter of

implementation of "Maharashtra Electric Vehicle Policy, 2021" prepared by the Task Force

under the chairmanship of Additional Chief Secretary (Transport) was under consideration of

the Government Maharashtra.

Government Resolution:

Considering the aspects mentioned in the preamble, Maharashtra Electric Vehicle

Policy, 2021 is approved for implementation from the date of issuance of this Government

Resolution till 31“ March, 2025. This policy shall apply exclusively to Battery Electric Vehicles

(BEVs) sold and registered in the State of Maharashtra. Mild Hybrid, Strong Hybrid, and Plug-

in Hybrid Electric Vehicles are not covered under this policy.

2. Maharashtra Electric Vehicle Policy, 2021

2.1 Vision & Mission

2.1.1 Vision

1) Adoption of sustainable and clean mobility solutions in Maharashtra.

--- Source page 18 ---

Government Resolution No.: MSEVP-2021/CR 25/TC 4

2)

3)

2.1.2

1)

2)

Transform Maharashtra into a leading state in terms of adoption of electric vehicles in the country.

Retain Maharashtra’s leadership in automotive manufacturing in India.

Mission

To bring a transition in the transportation ecosystem of Maharashtra by creating demand for the purchase and use of electric vehicles (EVs) in the state through demand-side initiatives.

To stimulate manufacturing of electric vehicles in the state through a set of supply-side initiatives that aim to attract investment, facilitate the establishment of manufacturing units, and encourage the production of electric vehicles, electric vehicle components including Advance Chemistry Cell (ACC) batteries,

electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE) and recycling industry.

2.2 Policy Objectives

1)

2)

3)

4)

5)

6)

7)

The primary objective of Maharashtra Electric Vehicle Policy 2021 is to

accelerate adoption of Battery Electric Vehicles (BEVs) in the state so that

they contribute to 10% of new vehicle registrations by 2025.

In the six targeted urban agglomerations 1.8. Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Nashik,

Aurangabad and Amravati in the state, achieve 25% electrification of public

transport.

In the six targeted urban agglomerations i.e. Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Nashik,

Aurangabad and Amravati in the state, achieve 25% electrification of fleet

operators, fleet aggregators and last-mile delivery vehicles by 2025.

Transition of 15% of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation’s

(MSRTC) existing bus fleet to electric.

Make Maharashtra the country’s top producer of BEVs in India, in terms of annual production capacity.

Target establishment of at least one Gigafactory for the manufacturing of advanced chemistry cell (ACC) batteries in the state.

Promote research and development (R&D), innovation, and skill development

across the EV ecosystem in the state.

2.3 Targets

For the dissemination of electric vehicle technology, the policy targets are as below

Page 2 of 15

--- Source page 19 ---

Government Resolution No.: MSEVP-2021/CR 25/TC 4

Table 1: Policy Targets

Make following four highways/

expressways fully EV ready by 2025

Sr. Description Target Remarks

No.

(1) । All vehicles 10%

5 wheelers 10% Share of EVs in new vehicle

registrations in the state till

3 wheelers 20% 2025

4 wheelers 5%

(2) | Fleet operators / | At least 25% of the urban fleet Applies to e-commerce

Fleet aggregator | operated by the fleet aggregators/ companies, last-mile

operators in the state to transition to delivery/logistics players

EVs by 2025. and mobility aggregators

operating in urban areas.

(3) Buses 1)In_ the six targeted urban

agglomerations (UA) i.e. Mumbai,

Pune, Nagpur, Nashik, Aurangabad

and Amravati in the state, achieve

25% electrification of public

transport by 2025

2) MSRTC to convert its existing bus

fleet to 15% electric fleet

(4) | Charging Cities: 1) Setup at-least one public

infrastructure By 2025, city-wise targets of public charging station in a 3

and semi-public charging stations are, km x 3 km grid, or

as listed below-

Greater Mumbai UA — 1500 2) A minimum of 50

Pune UA — 500 charging stations per

Nagpur UA — 150 million population,

Nashik UA — 100 whichever is higher.

Aurangabad UA — 75

Amravati — 30

Solapur — 20

Highways: 3) Setup public charging

stations on highways at

Page 3 of 15

--- Source page 20 ---

Government Resolution No.: MSEVP-2021/CR 25/TC 4

Sr. Description Target Remarks No. 1) Hindu Hurudaysamrat Balasaheb 25 km distance (on both Thackeray Samruddhi Highway — sides of the highways).

(Mumbai-Nagpur)

2) Yashwantrao Chavan Expressway

— (Mumbai-Pune)

3) Mumbai Nashik

4) Nashik Pune

(5) Government Starting 1* April 2022, all new govt. / vehicle fleet semi govt./ urban local bodies / govt. funded organizations vehicles

operating within the cities to be battery electric vehicles.

All vehicles leased for Govt. official purpose shall be battery electric

vehicles

Note:

1) The 3-wheeler and 4-wheeler targets are inclusive of passenger as well as goods carrier

vehicles.

2) E-commerce companies include companies like Amazon, Flipkart, etc. Last-mile

delivery/logistics players include Zomato, Swiggy and other courier and delivery firms

and mobility aggregators include Ola, Uber, Black-yellow taxi, etc.

2.4 Electric Vehicle Ecosystem Development Incentives

2.4.1 Demand side incentives:

Transport Department:

1) All the following incentives under this policy (A), (3), (C), (D) and (E) shall be

disbursed as per the mechanism established under ‘Operation Guidelines for Demand

Incentives’ which will be issued by Transport Dept. within 15 days from the

publication of this Government Resolution (GR).

2) State Incentives will be as per below. These incentives will be in addition to FAME

II incentives offered by Govt. of India. These incentives will be availed to vehicle

Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEMs). Vehicle models approved under FAME

Page 4 of 15

--- Source page 21 ---

Government Resolution No.: MSEVP-2021/CR 25/TC 4

II Scheme of Govt of India will be eligible for these incentives. Any amendments made by Govt. of India in FAME II scheme shall be applicable to this scheme.

3) The responsibility to pass on these incentives to the end customer during the purchase

lies with the vehicle OEMs.

4) The incentives disbursement mechanism (for demand incentives, scrappage incentives, charging infrastructure incentives, supply-side incentives, tax exemptions and reimbursements, etc.) shall be made through online portal to ensure timely transfer to beneficiaries and transparency.

5) E-commerce companies, last-mile delivery/logistics players and mobility aggregators

should submit an EV transition plan to the Transport Department, within six months

from the date of issue of this Government Resolution. (A) Basic Demand Incentives:

Basic demand incentives shall be availed by vehicle as per Table-2 on the basis of

battery capacity

Table 2: Basic Demand Incentives for electric vehicles

Sr. | Vehicle segment Incentive available | No. of vehicles to | Maximum

No. (INR/ kWh) be incentivized incentive per

vehicle (INR)

| (1) | e-2W (LI & L2) 5000 1,00,000 | 10,000

| (2) | e-3W autos (L5M) 15,000 | 30,000

| (3) | e-3W goods carrier (L5N) 10,000 | 30,000

| (4) | e-4W cars (M1) 10,000 | 1,50,000

| (5) | e-4W goods carrier (N1) 10,000 | 1,00,000

(6) | e-buses* 10% of vehicle** | 1,000 20,00,000

cost

Note:

*Incentive shall be available for STU (State Transport Undertakings) buses only.

**F'x-factory cost

1) Vehicles sold and registered with batteries will be eligible for 100% basic incentives.

2) For vehicles sold without battery, 50% of the basic demand incentive amount shall

be availed to the vehicle OEM, which shall be obligatory to transfer to end customer.

The remaining basic demand incentive amount (50%) shall be provided to the battery

Page 5 of 15

--- Source page 22 ---

Government Resolution No.: MSEVP-2021/CR 25/TC 4

swapping energy operator, with whom end-customer has agreement for battery

leasing.

(B) Early Bird Incentives:

1) Buyers purchasing the EVs (except e-buses) before 31“ Dec 2021 shall be eligible

for ‘Early Bird Incentives of INR 5,000/kWh of the vehicle battery capacity. This

discount shall be provided over and above the demand incentives described in Table

2. The maximum early bird discount availed per vehicle shall be capped at INR

1,00,000.

(C) Vehicle Scrappage Incentives:

1) The vehicles eligible for demand incentives under this policy will be eligible for the

scrappage incentive. Vehicle segment-wise scrappage incentives are described in

Table 3. Scrappage incentive shall be reimbursed by the Government of

Maharashtra provided:

e

Evidence of matching contribution from the dealer or OEM

e

Confirmation of scrappage of the ICE vehicle in the same vehicle category.

Table 3 Vehicle segment-wise Scrappage Incentives

Sr. No.

Vehicle Segment

Scrappage Incentive

(1)

2W त.1 & L2)

Up to INR 7,000

(2)

3W (L5M & LSN)

Up to INR 15,000

(3)

4W (M1& N1)

Up to INR 25,000

(D) Incentives on extended battery warranty and buyback agreement:

1) Concerns about battery life led to anxiety about the resale value as well as

difficulties in obtaining loans from financial institutions. To address these concerns

for the electric 2W and 3W users, the Maharashtra EV policy will provide OEMs

additional incentives (to be transferred to the customers) for offering additional

incentives as per Table 4.

2) Electric Vehicle OEM offering minimum 5-year warranty for batteries shall be

eligible for additional incentives as per table 4.

3)

OEMs who offer buyback shall be eligible for additional incentives as per Table 4.

4)

An OEM can avail both the incentives simultaneously, however the total incentive

amount will be limited to INR 12,000. This will be over and above the incentives

mentioned in Table 2 and based on the net value after considering all the above

incentives.

Page 6 of 15

--- Source page 23 ---

Government Resolution No.: MSEVP-2021/CR 25/TC 4

Sr. No.

Table 4 Assured Buyback and Warranty Incentives

Description of Incentives Incentives

(1)

Assured Buyback, (up to 5 years | 6% of total vehicle cost capped at INR

with depreciation rate not more | 10,000/-

than 7.5% per year)

(2)

Battery warranty of at least 5 | 4% of total vehicle cost capped at INR 6,000/-

years

(E) Other Demand Incentives:

1)

2)

3)

4)

5)

6)

7)

8)

All the EVs sold and registered in the state shall be exempted from motor vehicle tax till the duration of the policy. The details will be notified by Transport Dept. As per the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways notification of 18 June 2019, all the EVs sold and registered in the state shall be exempted from the payment of fees for purpose of issue or renewal of registration certificate.

An individual buyer will be able to avail the incentives only once for the respective vehicle category. Fleet aggregators/operators will be able to avail the incentives for the fleet owned by them. ‘Operational guidelines for Demand Incentives’ will outline the details for the same which will be issued by Transport Dept.

State government shall engage and encourage financial institutions and banks to offer preferential interest rates for EV customer segments like e-autos, goods carriers, and taxis.

The policy shall endeavour to fast-track and ensure time bound registration of EVs, including EV fleets owned by aggregators, last mile delivery providers, logistics players, etc.

All the EVs in the state shall be registered with green number plates, irrespective of vehicle type.

No permits shall be required for e-autos as per Ministry of Road Transport and Highways notification dated 18" October, 2018 and the provisions thereof will be strictly implemented.

City specific restrictions on auto rickshaws shall continue to apply also on e-

autorickshaws, based on local traffic considerations.

Page 7 of 15

--- Source page 24 ---

Government Resolution No.: MSEVP-2021/CR 25/TC 4

2.4.2 Charging Infrastructure Development Incentives:

(1) Energy Department:

1) Public and Semi-Public Charging Stations (PCS & SPCS) as mentioned in Table-5 below, will be eligible for incentives for construction of basic charging systems under this policy.

Table 5 Incentives for charging Infrastructure

Sr. | Type of Incentive Maximum Maximum number of

No. | PCS/SPCS** | amount Incentive available | PCS/SPCS to be

per PCS/SPCS incentivized

(1) | Slow 60% of the cost* INR 10,000 15,000

(2) | Moderate/fast | 50% of the cost* INR 5,00,000 500

Note: *Cost of charging station only (does not include land and any ancillary cost to set

2)

3)

4)

5)

6)

up charging station).

The ‘Operational Guidelines for Charging Infrastructure Incentives’ shall be issued by Energy Dept. in 15 days from the notification of this GR, which will define the eligibility criteria for availing these incentives. The charging station shall be eligible for the incentives only after commencement of the operation of the station. Public and semi-public charging stations availing FAME II charging infrastructure incentive will not be eligible for these incentives.

Energy Dept will create State Nodal Agency to develop and implement ‘Integrated EV charging Infrastructure Plan’.

Charging infrastructure service providers will be allowed to install charging stations in the state as per their business plans. Charging stations developed by the service providers will eventually be merged into the state-level charging infrastructure plan prepared by the State Nodal Agency.

Charging of EVs is a Service as clarified by the Ministry of Power (MOP), Government of India. In cases where any charging station has been installed in the state with Government (Central or State) incentives (financial or otherwise), service providers will be required to follow any regulations related to service charges, as may be notified by the State Nodal Agency / State Government / Appropriate Commission, provided due consultations have been done with the stakeholders.

The tariff applicable for all the EV charging stations and battery swapping stations

in the state shall be as per Order 322 of 2019 dated 30.03.2020 issued by

Page 8 of 15

--- Source page 25 ---

Government Resolution No.: MSEVP-2021/CR 25/TC 4

7)

Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory commission (MERC) or any such future order/s by MERC.

Charging service providers will be encouraged to provide centralized EV charging station management system portal and user application (Android, iOS and/or other), along with cashless payment option to ensure information accessibility of all public charging systems and its live usage status in public domain. Energy

department and state nodal agency should take initiative regarding this.

(2) Urban Development Department and Other Departments.:

1)

2)

3)

4)

Urban local bodies will be encouraged to provide property tax rebates to residential owners for installing private charging infrastructure within their premises. Details will be issued by Urban Development Dept. in consultation with Energy Dept. / State Nodal Agency.

Urban local bodies of all cities should prepare a charging infrastructure plan for their cities with an aim to cater to 2025 levels of EV penetration. Maharashtra EV Policy 2021 announces electric vehicle charging stations as ‘Amenity’. Accordingly, Urban Development Dept. and respective ULBs shall identify locations and land parcels (including on existing fuel stations) available with different government / land owning agencies, that could be made available for charging infrastructure installation at concessional rentals. Further, ULBs shall reserve amenity spaces for electric vehicle charging stations in respective City Development Plan. Urban Development Dept. and Energy Dept. shall ensure the implementation of charging infrastructure development by respective ULBs.

In 2019, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Government of India (MoHUA) released an amendment of building code and town planning rules for provisioning of EV charging stations in private and commercial buildings. These amendments should be duly incorporated and will be applicable for new buildings. Appropriate actions shall be taken by Urban Development Dept.

15“ Finance Commission (FCC) has allocated grant to 42 NCAP cities for 2020- 21 to implement measures for improving air quality as per their approved city action plans. Six cities in Maharashtra have been allocated grants by the FCC. Given that adoption of e-mobility would help cities in improving the air quality, funds should be made available from this FCC grant in the NCAP cities to support the Discoms in setting up the charging infrastructure and for the upstream infrastructure upgradation. Accordingly, Urban Development Dept. and Energy

Dept. shall take suitable actions.

Page 9 of 15

--- Source page 26 ---

Government Resolution No.: MSEVP-2021/CR 25/TC 4

5)

6)

7)

8)

9)

10

—

The six targeted UAs, listed earlier, will create low-emission zones that shall be served primarily by zero tailpipe emission vehicles, as decided and notified by the city-agencies. Urban Development Dept. and respective ULBs will develop a plan and implement in timebound manner.

Urban local bodies shall be encouraged to provide lane and parking preferences to EVs, subject to local traffic conditions. Urban Development Dept. and respective ULBs will develop a plan and implement in timebound manner.

New residential buildings will be mandated to have at least 20% of the total parking spaces as EV ready, of which 30% should be in common parking spaces or parking spaces unallotted to any individual residence owner. Urban Development Dept. and respective ULBs will develop a plan and implement in timebound manner.

Developers of new residential projects would be required to give option of buying EV-ready parking from 2022 onwards. Urban Development Dept. and respective ULBs will develop a plan and implement in timebound manner.

All dedicated off-road public parking spaces shall convert at least 25% of their

total capacity to be EV ready by 2023. Urban Development Dept. and respective

ULBs will develop a plan and implement in timebound manner.

All institutional and commercial complexes shall convert at least 25% of their

total parking spaces to be EV ready by 2023. Urban Development Dept. and

respective ULBs will develop a plan and implement in timebound manner.

11) All government office complexes shall convert 100% of their total parking spaces

to be EV ready at the earliest, but not later than 2025.

12) All the future public parking spaces, allotted by bidding process, shall provide free

parking to all the EVs. Urban Development Dept. and respective ULBs will

develop a plan and implement in timebound manner.

13) MSRDC / PWD and other associated dept. should identify locations on major

national and state highways for charging infrastructure installation.

2.4.3 Supply Side Incentives:

(1) Industry Department:

The Government of Maharashtra aims to attract investments to develop a robust EV

manufacturing and R&D ecosystem in the state.

1)

Incentives will be provided to make the state more lucrative for setting up

manufacturing and R&D facilities related to EVs (component manufacturing,

Page 10 of 15

--- Source page 27 ---

Government Resolution No.: MSEVP-2021/CR 25/TC 4

vehicle assembly, battery assembly, cell manufacturing, electronics parts

manufacturing, recycling of EVs and EV batteries, etc.). All the benefits under ‘D+’

category of mega projects/other categories will be provided to these industries

irrespective of location of manufacturing unit in the state. The incentives shall be

applicable from the date of public notification of this policy and shall be disbursed

by the Industries Dept. The ‘Operational Guidelines for Supply Side Incentives’

shall be issued by the Industries Dept.

2)

The Government of India approved the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme

for advance chemistry cell (ACC) battery manufacturing on 12 May 2021. The state

Govt of Maharashtra aims to attract at least one Gigafactory for the manufacturing

of Advance Chemistry Cells under this Scheme by 2023. It is expected that the

Government of India will invite states (through a challenge process) to express

interest for setting up of the first 4-5 Giga factories. Government of Maharashtra

will

endeavour

to

offer

competitive

incentives

that

significantly

enhance/complement the incentives offered under Gol’s PLI scheme.

3)

The state also aims to create an ecosystem for environment-friendly scrapping of

vehicles (including electric vehicles) and plans to prepare a ‘State Scrapping

Policy’, which will be notified in due course of time by the Transport Department

of Maharashtra. Maharashtra state shall also notify guidelines for safe handling and

disposal of electric vehicle batteries and its components.

2.5 Upskilling, Training and Job creation:

1) The policy shall aim to amend existing courses and/or create new courses (Syllabus

Development) on electric vehicle ecosystem to be offered by the state Industrial

Training — Institutes.

Government

of Maharashtra,

in partnership with

relevant/interested OEMs and service providers, shall develop skill enhancement

centres for delivering vocational courses on the EV ecosystem. The skill

enhancement centres will aim to train the ICE mechanics/workforce in repairing

and servicing of EVs and charging stations.

2)

Higher & Technical Education Dept. and Skill Development & Entrepreneurship

Dept shall discuss with relevant stakeholders and develop future plan in this regard.

3)

EV start-ups will be encouraged on priority basis under Maharashtra State

Innovation Society.

Page 11 of 15

--- Source page 28 ---

Government Resolution No.: MSEVP-2021/CR 25/TC 4

2.6 Government Vehicles: 1) Starting 1‘ April 2022, all new govt. / semi govt./ urban local bodies / govt. funded organizations vehicles operating within the cities shall be battery electric vehicles. All vehicles leased for Govt. official purpose shall be battery electric vehicles. Necessary amendments in Government Vehicle Procurement policy shall be issued

by Finance Department.

2.7 Zero Emission Vehicle (ZEV) Credit Program:

1) The requirement of ZEV credit program and other technical details shall be released

in due course of time by Transport Dept.

2.8 Awareness Program:

1) An awareness program will be designed and implemented by the state government in partnership with industry players and civil society organizations. The program will aim to create awareness on EVs, their benefits and incentive support available

under state and central government policies.

3. Monitoring and Implementation Mechanism:

3.1 The following “Steering Committee” is being constituted to monitor and guide the

implementation of Maharashtra Electric Vehicle Policy, 2021.

(1) | Hon’ble Chief Secretary, GoM Chairman

(2) | Additional Chief Secretary, Transport, Mantralaya, | Member

Mumbai

(3) | Principal Secretary, Industries, IE&LD, Mantralaya, | Member

Mumbai

(4) | Principal Secretary, UD - 2, UDD, Mantralaya, | Member

Mumbai

(5) | Principal Secretary, Energy, IE&LD, Mantralaya, | Member

Mumbai

(6) | Principal Secretary, Environment & Climate Change, | Member

Mantralaya, Mumbai Secretary

(7) | Industry representatives and/or experts, as nominated | Member

by

Page 12 of 15

--- Source page 29 ---

Government Resolution No.: MSEVP-2021/CR 25/TC 4

3.1.1 The Steering Committee will monitor policy progress, address major impediments to policy implementation and make amendments to the policy, as may be required. The apex committee shall also consider providing incentives to new emerging technologies like fuel cell vehicles as and when these technologies may become more popularly available.

3.2 The steering committee shall form sub-committees or special task forces on priority

areas, as may be required.

3.3 Steering Committee shall be supported by a dedicated team, or a sub-dept. called the "Maharashtra State EV Sub-dept.”. The team shall be made available through Transport Dept. and Environment & Climate Change Dept. Also, The sub-dept. will comprise of a team of experts / professionals and will be responsible for day-to-day operations of the EV Policy. No new post will be created in this regard.

3.4 Comprehensive monitoring and co-ordination regarding Maharashtra Electric Vehicle

Policy, 2021 shall be done through Environment and Climate Change Dept.

3.5 The various responsibilities of Maharashtra Electric Vehicle Policy, 2021 for various

incentives and implementation will be as follows.:

Sr. No. Incentives Concerned Government Department

(1) Demand Side Incentives These incentives will be disbursed through the Industries Department until the relevant budget head are transferred to the Transport Department.

After transfer of budget head, it will be

disbursed through the ~ Transport

Department.

(2) Charging Infrastructure | Energy Dept.

Development Incentives

| (3) Supply Side Incentives Industry Dept.

(4) Upskilling, Training and Job | Higher & Technical Education Dept., Skill

Creation Development & Entrepreneurship Dept.

Page 13 of 15

--- Source page 30 ---

Government Resolution No.: MSEVP-2021/CR 25/TC 4

4

The funds required for the implementation of Maharashtra Electric Vehicle Policy, 2021

will be made available through various means such as green tax levied for registration of old

vehicles, cess on fossil fuels, etc.

5

The Government of Maharashtra approves the expenditure of INR 930 Cr. for next four

years for implementation of Maharashtra Electric Vehicle Policy, 2021. The demand side

incentives will be disbursed by Transport Department, Charging infrastructure development

incentives will be disbursed by the Energy Department and supply-side incentives will be

disbursed by the Industries Department. The budget allocated to these Departments will be

based on incentive amounts defined in 2.4.1, 2.4.2 and 2.4.3, subject to the maximum incentive

amounts and maximum number of vehicle/charging stations to be incentivized under the policy.

6

This Government Resolution is being issued with the concurrence of Transport

Department, Industry Department, Energy Department and Finance Department vide UOR No.

1781 / Secretary (Expenditure), dated 28" June 2021 and with the approval of the Cabinet.

7

This Government Resolution has been made available on the website of the Government

of Maharashtra www.maharashtra.gov.in

and its code is as 202107231413587504. This

resolution is being attested with a digital signature.

By order and in the name of the Governor of Maharashtra.

Digitally signed by Manisha Patankar Mhaiskar

Manisha Patankar

DN: c=IN, o=Government Of Maharashtra, ou=Environment And

imate Change Department, postalCode=400032, st=Maharashtra,

23e4054ca267ca6, cn=Manisha Patankar Mhaiskar

2.5.4.20=fef2886076676dbebee07dO0f1af741 4b764ea7e53ecaa48a4

Mhaiskar

Date: 2021.07.30 14:01:16 +05'30'

(Manisha Patankar-Mhaiskar)

Principal Secretary, Govt. of Maharashtra

Copy to,

1)

Principal Secretary to Hon’ble Governor, Rajbhavan, Mumbai

2)

Additional Chief Secretary to Hon’ble Chief Minister, Mantralaya, Mumbai 32

3)

Secretary to Hon’ble Dy. Chief Minister, Mantralaya, Mumbai 32

4)

Personal Secretary to Hon’ble Minister, Industry Dept. Mantralaya, Mumbai 32

5)

Personal Secretary to Hon’ble Minister, Transport Dept. Mantralaya, Mumbai 32

6)

Personal Secretary to Hon’ble Minister, Energy Dept. Mantralaya, Mumbai 32

7)

Personal Secretary to Hon’ble Minister , Environment & Climate Change Dept.

Mantralaya, Mumbai 32

8)

Personal Secretary to Hon’ble Minister, Skill Development & Entrepreneurship Dept.

Mantralaya, Mumbai 32

9)

Personal Secretary to Hon’ble Minister, (all Other Dept.)

10) Personal Secretary to Hon’ble Minister of State, Environment & Climate Change Dept.

Mantralaya, Mumbai 32

11) Personal Secretary to Hon’ble Minister of State, Industry Dept. Mantralaya, Mumbai 32

Page 14 of 15

--- Source page 31 ---

Government Resolution No.: MSEVP-2021/CR 25/TC 4

12) Personal Secretary to Hon’ble Minister of State, Energy Dept. Mantralaya, Mumbai 32

13) Personal Secretary to Hon’ble Minister of State, Transport Dept. Mantralaya, Mumbai

14) Personal Secretary to Hon’ble Minister of State, Other Dept. Mantralaya, Mumbai 32

15) Secretary to Hon’ble Chairman, Vidhan Parishad, Vidhan Bhavan, Mumbai

16) Secretary to Hon’ble Speaker, Vidhan Sabha, Vidhan Bhavan, Mumbai

17) Personal Secretary to Hon’ble Leader of Opposition, Vidhan Sabha, Vidhan Bhavan,

Mumbai

18) Personal Secretary to Hon’ble Leader of Opposition, Vidhan Parishad, Vidhan Bhavan,

Mumbai

19) All Member of Vidhan Sabha and Vidhan Parishad, Vidhan Bhavan, Mumbai

20) Hon’ble Chief Secretary, Mantralaya, Mumbai — 32.

21) Additional Chief Secretary, Transport Department, Mantralaya, Mumbai — 32.

22) Additional Chief Secretary, UD1 UDD, Mantralaya, Mumbai — 32.

23) Principal Secretary, Industries Department, Mantralaya, Mumbai — 32.

24) Principal Secretary, UD 2, Urban Development Department, Mantralaya, Mumbai — 32.

25) Principal Secretary, Planning Department, Mantralaya, Mumbai — 32

26) Principal Secretary, Skill Development & Entrepreneurship Dept, Mantralaya, Mumbai

27) Secretary, Finance (Expenditure) Development Department, Mantralaya, Mumbai — 32

28) Secretary, Energy Department, Mantralaya, Mumbai — 32.

29) Accountant General Maharashtra , Mumbai / Nagpur

30) Chairman, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, Mumbai

31) Member Secretary, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, Mumbai

32) All Divisional Commissioners.

33) All District Collectors.

34) All Municipal Commissioners.

35) All Chief Executive Officers, Zilla Parishad.

36) All other Mantralaya Departments, Mantralaya, Mumbai

37) All Chief Officers, Municipal Councils

38) All Chief Officers, Nagar Panchayat

39) All Block Development Officers of Panchayat Samiti

40) All Village Development officers / Gram Sevak, Gram Panchayat

41) Director General, Directorate of Information and Public Relations (for publicity).

Mantralaya, Mumbai 32

42) Director, Mumbai Doordarshan (for publicity). Mumbai

43) Select file

Page 15 of 15