--- Source page 1 ---

Maharashtra Government Department of Environment and Environmental Change No.2021/P.R.C.37/Establishment Hutaatma Rajguru Square, Madam Kama Road, Ministry, Mumbai-400 032. Date: 03 March 2021.

Read: 1) Disability Rights Act, 2016

2) Department of Social Justice and Special Assistance Government Circular No.

Procedure 251/D.K.2, 12.11.2020

3) Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of India, New Delhi

Notice dated 04.01.2021

4) Department of Social Justice and Special Assistance Governance Decree No.

It is the second day of the year.

5) Department of Social Justice and Special Assistance Governance Decree No.

Day two, day two, February 2, 2021.

6) Letter from Maharashtra Pollution Control Board No. J.C.Mprani/Asta/M-33, dated 16.2.2021.

The preamble is:

Government Services for the Disabled under Section 33 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016

For this purpose, the Union Government has issued a notification dated 4.01.2021 for persons with disabilities.

List of posts secured by the Head List of Government of India 7/5/5/.0590

Policy/Act/Rules-Notification at List of Post Identification Suitable for Persons

with Benchmark Disability notified on 09.09.2029.

The Special Assistance Department has decided on the establishment of State Government in accordance with the Government Decree dated 07.10.2016.

Guidelines have been issued for ensuring for the disabled.

Appointments of Maharashtra Pollution Control Board by letter dated 16.02.2021

The proposal to do so was under consideration by the government.

Government decision:-

Social Justice and Development of the Union Government under Section 33 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016

Ministry of Otority, New Delhi Notice dated 04.01.2021 to ensure the availability of disabled persons

The list of posts has been published by the Union Government for Disabled Persons in Kerala Group A to Group D.

The posts in the establishment of the State Government are those in the list recognized by the Central Government.

The duties and responsibilities, nature of work and prevailing salary range are similar to those of the civil service.

To ensure that positions in the state government service are available for the disabled even if the positions are different.

The guidelines have been issued by the Department of Social Justice and Special Assistance under the Governance Decree dated 02.02.2021.

In accordance with the directives in Paragraph 1, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MCCB) shall be responsible for the implementation of the provisions of this Regulation.

As outlined in Decree Statement-A, 29 class positions will be ensured for the disabled.

There are.

--- Source page 2 ---

Governance Decree No: Disabled-2021/P.R.37/Establishment

3

Sadr Jasan Decision, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Union Government, New Delhi

Notification dated 04.01.2021 and Governance Decree of the Department of Social Justice dated 02.02.2021

They are being discharged as per the notices given.

tes

Sadr Jasan decision to make it available on the website of the Government of Maharashtra at www.maharashstra.gov.in

The Government's decision has been digitally signed with the code number 202103051300286504.

It's being verified.

ment Departm

By order and on behalf of the Governor of Maharashtra,

Manohar Ramchandra

9098

Bandpatte

\dra Bandp:

i210258464e6ece2041026171

Ds

Letter of Intent: Statement-A

(Manohar dam?)

Our Secretary, Government of Maharashtra

to copy,

1

Ma. Secretary to the Governor, Raj Bhavan, Malbar Hill, Mumbai

Principal Secretary, Ministry, Mumbai to the Chief Minister

Minister (Department of Environment and Environmental Change) Ministry, Mumbai

Minister of State (Department of Environment and Climate Change), Mumbai,

4

M. Chief Secretary, Ministry, Mumbai

Principal Secretary, Department of Social Justice and Special Assistance, Ministry, Mumbai

Principal Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Climate Change, Mumbai,

Member Secretary, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, Mumbai.

9

Commissioner, Disabled Welfare, Commission, Pune,

10,

Deputy Secretary (Department of Environment and Environmental Change), Ministry, Mumbai

11. Selection.

Page 2 of 2

--- Source page 3 ---

Maharashtra Pollution Control Board

Accounting - A

(Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 and Department of Environment and Environmental Change, Government Decision No.

अड

Lannan

A.K.

Appointment

Physical fitness

Disabled persons

Responsibilities and duties of senior positions

शेरा

1a

Chief Accounting Officer

5, BN, MF,R W, SE, C

AB, LV

b)

His main duties and responsibilities will consist of the

D.HH

c)

following : To frame budget estimates of the Board

and to forward them to the state Government for

OA,OL,BL,OAL,BLOA,BLA,LC, Dw,

AAV

d) MD

sanctioning Grant in aid to the Board. To call for

Involving (a) to © above

grant-in-aid in suitable instalments according to the

financial requirements of the Board. To invest part of

the Grant, which is surplus to immediate needs, in a

remunerative mode of investment. To ensure safe -

custody of hard cash and other securities of the

Board if any. To compile periodical and annual

accounts of the Board, to Place them before the

Board for adoption and to forward them to the state

Governments as required under the Act.To attend to

the statutory Audit party, and to ensure a clean audit

report, as far as possible. To function also as Internal

Audit Officer and financial Advisor to the Board. To

act as drawing and disbursing Officer of the Board.

To act as a collecting Authority under the Cess Act.

1977. To generally supervise over the Accounts wing

of the Board and to give a good account of this vital

--- Source page 4 ---

(Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 and Department of Environment and Environmental Change, Government Decision No.

It's not just me, it's me.

There you go, there you go.

2

Senior Law Officers

S, ST, RW, H, C, MF

a) B.LV

b)

Environmental Acts, rules and regulations under the

HH

supervision of the member secretary and chairman of

c)OL,OA, BA, BL, OAL,BLOA, BLA,

the Board. To Prepare an action plan for the

CP, LC, Dw, AAV

d)

implementation of various environmental acts, rules

SLD

e)MD

and regulations under the supervision of the member

Involving (a) to © above

secretary and chairman. To brief various advocates

on record and sr. counsels angaged by th board in

the high court and supreme court of state and

national consumer forum state information

commission, labour courts and lok aayukta etc. To

superwise the work of law officers, asst. law officer

and various panel advocates as well as the officers of

the board pertaining to the legal matter. To give

consultation / legal advise to the Board state govt.

and other govt. and semi-govt. Orgainisation as well

is the agencies approached to the Baord. To make

correspondence with the central govt. state govt.

other govt. and semi govt. organization and various

offices of the board in respect of legal matters. To

annaai

hafore

2101231.

nne

ate authorities

din

lo

3

Senior Administrative

5, , MF, RW, SE,C

a) B.LV

b)

Officials

D,HH

c) OA,

Senior Administrative Officer will look after the entire

BA, OL, BL, OAL, BLOA, BLA,CP,

administration work of the Board. To propose

LC, DW, AAV , MDy

creation of additional posts with full justification. To

d)MI

e)

propose/modificaton of recruitment rules and job

MD Involving (a) to (d) above

specifications for all posts of in the Board. Carry out

periodical administration inspection of the sub offices

of the Board. Carry out disciplinary actons whenever

necessary against the employees of the Board. To

rcruit the staff new or vacant of the Board. To carry

out the work of promotion and transfer of entire

employees of the Board. Carry out other

specifications as may be assigned to this post by his

superriors.

--- Source page 5 ---

(Divang Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 and Department of Environment and Environmental Change, Govt. Decree No. Divang-2021/pr.kr.37/Asta, D.3 March, 2021 Wig Officer S,ST,AW,H,C,MFa) B,LV&) His prime duty will be to advise the board on all legal matters

HH c)OL, matters relating to the working of the board. He will

OA, BA, BL, OAL, BLOA, BLA, CP, be responsible to explore the cases of prosecutions

LC, Dw, AAV against defaulters after examinig the record of

d)SLD e) various offices. He will be responsible to finalise the

MD Involving (a) to (त) above complaints/application/affidavits/notices/appeals etc. He will be required to Act, appear and plead in various courts/ tripunals/quasijudicial forums etc. whenever required. To brief panel advocates/senior counsels/special counsels as and when required. To issue legal notices to defaulting agencies after collecting data from concerned officers. To attend courts in different parts of the state and take periodical review of cases filed in various courts. To compile cases law relating to environmental legislation. To look after all legal matters including those filed by the baord or against the board in supreme court. To perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by his superiors.

5 Accounting Officer S, ST, BN, MF, 144, 988, Kga) B, LV b) H,C D,HH c) OA, BA, OL, BL,CP, LC, Dw, AAV, MDy Responsible for the smooth working of the budget d) ASD(M) and inspection wing in the accounts section. To 6) MD Involving (@) to prepare the budget of the Board. To prepare

) proposals to borrow money form approved sources by way of loans or issue of boands, debentures, etc. To prepare proposals for obtaining grant in aid/ state / central Government. The annual inspections and physical varification of stock of the subordinate offices of the Board. The work related to issue of utilisation certificate whrever required. To deal with the schemes regading C.P.F., Medical Reimbursement, Graduity, Conveyance, H.B.A., etc. and maintain the records and watch the recoveries thereof. To perform such other duties as meay be assinged by the superiors.

--- Source page 6 ---

(Divang Persons Rights Act, 2016 and Department of Environment and Environmental Change, Govt. Decree No. Divang-2021/pr.kr.37/Asta, D.3 March, 2021 6 Administrative Officer S, ST, Dw.787॥077 H.C, Ja) B. b) _ (His duties and responsibilities will consist of the D, HH c) OA, following: To estmate the man-power planning for the BA, OL, BL, OAL, BLOA, BLA, CP, Board. To propose the creation of additional administrative posts with LC, Dw, AAV, MDy disciplinary justification. AAV take SLD, MI d) MD Involving (a) to (C)

--- Source page 7 ---

(Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 and Department of Environment and Environmental Change, Government Decision No.

They are.

TTT EEE

—

A statistical officer

5, W, MF, RW, SE, C

88, LV

70,

HH

To introduce and develop the sound system of

cJOA,BA,OL,BLOAL, CP,

building up of statistics under all activities of the

LC,DW,AAV

d)

Board. To prescribe forms and calender of returns for

ASD(M), MI

e) MD

various purposes. To collect, dissect, compile and

Involving (a) to (d) above

rearrange the statistical data according to different

needs of the Board. To circulate the statistical data to

all the subordinate offices of the board. To have

published the data in a telling manner in different

media of publicity. To institute ‘Time’, ‘Motion’

studies and suggest norms of works. To institute

organisation and methods sutdy and apply it to the

activity under the Board. To attempt costing of

activity under the board and to establish cost-

benefitration whrever necessary. To prepare

graphical charts and develop other methods of

illustrative elecidation of information required by the

Board. To perform such other duty as may be

assigned to the post by the superiors.

Assistant Secretary

5, ST, RW, C, MF

a) B, LV

70,

(Installation)

HH

005, BA,

To arrange and to do the work connected with the

OL, BL, OAL, BLOA, BLA, CP, LC,

meetings of the Board and various committees

Dw , AAV MDy

thereunder.

To prepare achemes which has bearing

d) MI

e)

on the welfare of the staff, To deal with matters

MD Involving (a) to (d) above

related to office/ residential premises, To handle all

matters relation to telephones inluding intercoms,

Hot lines, Fax, Teleprinters, Teles etc. To arrange

for extra official activities such as seminars

symposiums, exhibitins, film (documentaries) shows

etc. To carry out such other duties as may be

assigned to him by member secretary. chairman/.

--- Source page 8 ---

(Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 and Department of Environment and Environmental Change, Govt. Decree No.

——

This ear.

And they shall be gathered together in the midst of the earth.

गग“

| 0

Assistant accountant S, BN, MF, RW, SE, 6

a)B.LV

b)D,

His duties and responsibilities will constist of the

HH

005, BA,

following : To daily sign the revenue receipts. To carry

OL ,BL, OAL, BLOA, BLA, LC, Dw,

out physical verification of hard cash occasionally. To

AAV, MDy

d) MD

issue cheques/ drafts towards settlement of various

Involving (a) to (

) above

payments. To pass bills towards services and

supplies. To impart training to Board employees. To

daily attest the cash book. To generally supervise the

working of the Accounts wing. To perform such other

function as may be assigned to him by his superiors.

| 1

Assistant Legal Officer S, STR W, H, 0, MF

a)B.LV

b)HH

His prime duty will be to advice the board on all legal

matters relating to the working of the board. He will

cJOA,BA,OL,BLOAL, BLOA,BLA, CP,

be responsible to explore the cases of prosecutions

LC, Dw, AAV,

d)

against defaulters after examinig the record of

SLD, MI

e)MD

various offices. He will be responsible to finalise the

Involving (a) to (d)

complaints/ applications/ affidavits notices/ appeals

etc. He will be required to Act, appear and plead in

various courts/iribunals/ quasijudicial forums etc.

whenever required. To brief panel advovated/senior

counsels/special counsels as and when reqired. To

issue legal notices to defaulting agencies after

collecting date from concerned officers. To attend

courts in different parts of the state adn take

periodical review of cases filed in vaarious courts. To

cmpile cases law relating to Environmental

legislations. To look after all legal matters including

those filed by the board or against the board in

supreme court. To perform such other duties as may

be assigned to him by his superiors.

--- Source page 9 ---

When not busy OL,BL,OAL,BLOA,CP,LC,DW,in distance,he is required to do general typing work.AAV,d) To supervise the typing of the Board and ASDM,SLD,MI e) To ensure the proper handling of the staff's tasks.To ensure that he/she is responsible for conducting such meetings,to facilitate the maintenance of the office,to ensure that they are carried out in a timely manner. To open, mark and distribute daily tapal. To the Treasury Officer / BL, BA, OAL,CP, LC, Dw, AAV, look after sanitary, security and transport library assistant d) SLD, MI arrangements. To maintain roaster of duties of peon, e) MD Involving (a) to (d) ➡️ drivers, and chowkidars. To process all service matters. To perform such other duty may be assinged to him asy by his superiors.

--- Source page 10 ---

(Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 and Department of Environment and Environmental Change, Govt. Decree No.

The Hanukkah

SS

—

SS

15. Junior short-story writer

S, ST, W, L, MF, RW,

a) B. LV

b)HH | To take dictations and to transcribe tham in to

SE,H, 7

075, OL,

English/ Marathi over the typewriter. When not busy

BL, OAL, CP, LC,Dw,AAV

in distation, he is required to do general typing work.

d) ASD(M), SLD, MI

To supervise over the typing pool of the Board and

e) MD Involving (a) to (d) above

equitable distribute the typing load. To preserve cut

stencils in proper manner so as to be handy for

reuse. To act as P.A. to whom he is attached. To

carry out miscellaneous duties such as maintenance

of tour programmes, attending telephone duty etc.

To take/ give appointements of/ to visitors. To attend

meetings and to take down deliberetions to facilitate

drafting of minutes. To assist the Administrative

Officer in the matter of conducting stonography and

typing tests. To perform such ohter function as may

be assigned to him by his superiors.

16

A statistical assistant

S, ST, W, MF, SE, RW, 7

Data collaction, complilation, and Analysis of

a) B, LV

b)D,

following aaspects performance statitics of following

HH

075, OL,

region, to assist statitcal Officer

BL, CP, LC, Dw, AAV

d) ASD(M), SLD, MI

e)

MD Involving (a) to (d)

--- Source page 11 ---

(Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 and Department of Environment and Environmental Change, Govt. Decree No.

या

Yeah, well, that's what I'm talking about.

I'm not going to be able to do that.

| (9

The first secretary/treasurer is S, ST, W, L, MF, SE,

a) 8, LV

छि,

First Clerk to work as Cashier in Account Branch: To

HH

c)OA, OL, | write and maintain the daily Cash Book. To do the

BA, BL, OAL, CP, LC, Dw, AAV,

ledger posting daily. To execute Bank transactions.

d) ASD(M,

To maintain safe custody of hard cash and securities

MoD), ID,SLD, MI

8) MD Involving

of the Board. To carry out periodical remitances. To

(a) to @)

disburse all payments duly passed. To carry out any

other function as may be assigned to him by this

superiors. Il] First Clerk to work as Assistant

Accountant in Account Branch : To scrutinise and

pass bills towards services and supplies. To conduct

periodical inspections of subordinate offices. To

purchese field deposit Receipts for investment and

present them for enchashment/ reinvestment. To

check and certify daily postage stamp account. 10

perform such other function as many be assigned to

him by his superiors . III] First Clerk to work in

Administrative Branch : To maintain service record,

leave account etc. To deal with administrative

matters. To assist the Superintendent.

18

Senior scribe

5, ST, W, MF,RW, SE, 7

a) 8, LV

छि,

To process cases of service matters within the frums

HH

cjOA, OL,

work of rules and regulation. To process bills of

BL, BA, OAL, CP, LC, Dw, AAV ,MDy

supplies and services for passing payments thereof.

d) SLD, MI

To carry out correspondence on routine matters. To

e) MD Involving (a) to (d)

maintain files and build-up record on the basis of

above

‘one subject one fils'. To cause receipt of appications

for consent, renewal, cess fees etc. To account for

consent fees. cess fees, fees for appeals etc. To

perform any other duty as may be assigned to him by

his superiors.

--- Source page 12 ---

(Divided Persons Rights Act, 2016 and Department of Environment and Environmental Change, Govt. Decree No. Dividing-2021/pr.kr.37/Asta, D.3 March, 2021 12 [front S,S1,W,L,MF,SE, Dw,Bifash 0]Dividing persons rights, 2016, Dw, AAV c) such as new wiring, extensions to existing wiring, ASDM,SLD, MI d) MD fixing of additional electrical points, for additional Involving (a) to (C) above installations, repeir to repair instruments that run on electricity. To maintain air conditioning, ensure refrigerators, B.O.D. Incubators, etc. To look after the inward and outward of daily tapal Tankwriter 7, MF HH c) OA, OL, received/despatched. To maintain the accountal of BL, BA, OAL, CP, LC, Dw, AAV postage stamps. To open the daily tapel, mark it to d) ASDM), SLD, SE, H, ̊ dealing assistants and to distribute the same for e) MD Involving (a) to further necessary actions. To file and link up the papers (d) to enable the senior clerks to deal with dealers. To perform his general duties. To carry out his duties as a superintendent of the vehicle, to perform his duty as a supervisor, to carry out any other duties assigned to him by the Superintendents, to maintain the safety of the car, to keep the vehicle in a safe condition, to assist the driver, to preserve the vehicle.

--- Source page 13 ---

To attend to the initial installation of laboratory instruments and later on to look after their minor repairs. To assist the scientific staff of lab in developing instrumentation under the laboratory. To perform such other duty as may be assigned to him by his superiors. 24 Dossiers S, ST, 44, BN, RW, SE, H, To maintain the record of the office in an ayatic C, MF a) 8, LV p, mannerwise. To propose destruction of old yearstem.

HH record according to procedure laid down. To file the

GJOA,BA,OL, OAL, CP; LC, Dw, papers. To perform any other duty as may be

AAV, assigned to him by his superiore.

d@ASD(M,MoD), ID, SLD, MI

e) MD Involving (a) to (d) above ________1__________________ 1 25 L, KC, PP, MF, a) B. LV b) ♬ To duplicate the stencils either on electrically RW, SE, 7 D.HH c) OA, ♬ operated Roneo machine or on a manually operated OL, OAL, CP, LC, Dw, AAV machine as may be available. To operate xerox d) ASDM, MoD), ID, SLD, MI_ ♬ printing machine as and when made available.

(d) above condition. To have the repairs carried out to the aforesaid machines through the help of stores superintendent/store keeper. To preserve out stencils of improtance so as to be handy for reuse.

--- Source page 14 ---

To supervise and arrange roaster duties of peons RW, SE, C D.HH 075, under his section. To take appintments of visitors to OL, OAL, CP, LC, Dw, AAV the officer to whom he is attached. To get the record d) ASD, MLD, MoD), ID, SLD, MI ̊ systematically attached through the help of Peons in e) MD Involving (a) to respect the dossiers covered in his section (d) To act as a hand drawer. To assist the store keeper/ store superintendent in the matter of annual/ periodic stock verification duties. 28  Guard S, ST, W, L, KC, PP, MF, a) B. LV b)  To maintain the overall security of the office, and its RW, SE, C D.HH 075, various assets, recorde from pilferage/ damage/ OL, OAL, CP, LC, Dw, AAV theft/ sabotage during and outside working hours/ d) ASD(M, MoD), ID, SLD, MI days. To report any contingency to the officers/ e) MD Involving (a) to _  authorities of the Board, who have been provided (d) with residential telephones. OAL, CP, LC, Dw, AAV, d) ASD(M, MoD), ID, SLD, MI e) MD Involving (a) to (d) Abbreviations :physical qualifications PHYSICAL REQUIREMENT ABBREVIations Used:S=Sitting,ST=Standing, W=Walking, BN=Bending, L=Lifting, KC=Kneeling & Crouching, Abbrevations : fata category CATEGORY ABBRAVATIONS USED: B= Blind, LV=Low Vison, D=Deaf, HH=Hard of Hearing, OA=One Arm, OL=One, BA=Both Arms, LB= Both Arms