--- Source page 1 ---

Constitution of State Level Special Task Force (STF) for taking up measures to eliminate single use plastic.

Government of Maharashtra

Environment and climate change Department

Government Resolution No.Plastic-2021/C.R.53/T.C.1

Madam Cama Road, Hutatma Rajguru Chowk,

Mantralaya, Mumbai -400032.

Date : 18‘ November, 2021.

Government Resolution :-

The Government of Maharashtra is pleased to constitute the Special Task Force for taking measures to eliminate single use plastic (SUP) and to prepare a comprehensive plan with timelines for implementation in mission mode, with the following members and terms of references.

1 Chief Secretary to Government of Maharashtra Chairman 2 Additional Chief Secretary / Principal Secretary / | Member Secretary to Government of Maharashtra Urban Development Department 3 Additional Chief Secretary / Principal Secretary / | Member Secretary to Government of Maharashtra Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department 4 Additional Chief Secretary / Principal Secretary / | Member Secretary to Government of Maharashtra Industries Department 5 Additional Chief Secretary / Principal Secretary / | Member Secretary to Government of Maharashtra Skill Development Department Additional Chief Secretary / Principal Secretary / | Member Secretary to Government of Maharashtra School Education and Sports Department 7 Additional Chief Secretary / Principal Secretary / | Member Secretary to Government of Maharashtra Higher and Technical Education Department Additional Chief Secretary / Principal Secretary / | Member Secretary to Government of Maharashtra Tourism and Cultural Affairs Department Additional Chief Secretary / Principal Secretary / | Member Secretary to Government of Maharashtra / Director General of Information and Public Relation Government of Maharashtra 10 Additional Chief Secretary / Principal Secretary / | Member Secretary to Government of Maharashtra Environment and Climate Change Department

--- Source page 2 ---

Government Resolution No.: Plastic-2021/C.R.53/T.C.1

11 Member Secretary, Maharashtra Pollution Control | Member Secretary

Board

12 Director of Information Technology Member

Government of Maharashtra

13 Director Municipal Administration Member

Government of Maharashtra

14 Director of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, Member

Government of Maharashtra

Nodal Department :- Municipal Administration and Urban Development Department for Urban areas and Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Department for Rural areas shall be the Nodal Departments for taking measures to eliminate Single Use Plastic and to prepare a

Comprehensive Action Plan with timelines for implementation.

The frequency of the meetings of the Special Task Force shall be once in Two

months.

A) Terms of references for State Level Special Task Force under the Chairmanship of Chief Secretary to Government for taking measures to eliminate single use plastic in

mission mode :-

1. Prepare a comprehensive Action Plan for implementation of Plastic Waste

Management (Amendment) Rules, 2021 and phasing out of SUPs, with identified

activities and timelines and synergizing efforts and resources of various Department/

Agencies at State, District and city level.

2. Assess plastic waste generated in State with respect to collection, recycling and end of life

disposal and identify gaps in plastic waste management (Reduce, Reuse and Recycle) — policy,

implementation, enforcement, infrastructure etc.

3. Strengthen policy, regulatory, institutional mechanisms/structures for the implementation of

Plastic Waste Management (Amendment) Rules, 2021 and phasing out of Single Use Plastic

(SUP) in the state, design appropriate management strategies and allow for allocation of

financial resources for PWM including leveraging of funds from Swachh Bharat Mission.

4. Take measures for effective enforcement of (i) Plastic Waste Management (Amendment)

Rules, 2021, as amended, and (ii) state specific bans imposed on identified single use plastic

items.

Page 2 of 4

--- Source page 3 ---

Government Resolution No.: Plastic-2021/C.R.53/T.C.1

5. Develop policies for supporting the adoption of alternatives to identified single use plastic

items prohibited under Plastic Waste Management (Amendment) Rules, 2021 as amended.

6. Take measures to strengthen ULBS/GPS for segregation, collection, storage, transportation,

processing and disposal of plastic waste.

7. Take measures for effective monitoring of implementation of Plastic Waste Management

(Amendment) Rules, 2021, as amended

8. Prepare a detailed road map for activities to build awareness and outreach among public on

plastic waste management and reduction in the use of SUP items.

9. Develop strategy for building a strong public movement for mitigation of plastic pollution

by involving education institution (schools, colleges, universities), NCC, NSS, Scouts, Youth

clubs, Eco clubs, Opinion makers and voluntary organizations, with a detailed action plan in

this regard.

B)

For effective implementation on ground, district and city level task force may be

constituted as under:-

e

For million plus cities :- City Level Task Force under Commissioner of Municipal

Corporation or Divisional Commissioner or District Collector or any other officer of

Suitable rank as deemed appropriate by the State Government.

e

For district (excluding million plus cities):- District Level Task Force under District

Collector.

This Government Resolution is made available on the Maharashtra Government

website www.maharashtra.gov.in and Reference No. of this is 202111011446503704. This

Government Resolution has been signed digitally.

By order and in the name of the Governor of Maharashtra.

ND CLIMATE

SANJAY B

eS 12fe3:

SANDANSHIV

(Sanjay Sandanshiv)

Under Secretary to the Government of Maharashtra

Copy to:

1. Chief Secretary to Government of Maharashtra

2. Additional Chief Secretary / Principal Secretary / Secretary to Government of Maharashtra

Urban Development Department

Page 3 of 4

--- Source page 4 ---

Government Resolution No.: Plastic-2021/C.R.53/T.C.1

3. Additional Chief Secretary / Principal Secretary / Secretary to Government of Maharashtra

Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department

4. Additional Chief Secretary / Principal Secretary / Secretary to Government of Maharashtra

Industries Department

5. Additional Chief Secretary / Principal Secretary / Secretary to Government of Maharashtra

Skill Development Department

6. Additional Chief Secretary / Principal Secretary / Secretary to Government of Maharashtra

School Education and Sports Department

7. Additional Chief Secretary / Principal Secretary / Secretary to Government of Maharashtra

Higher and Technical Education Department

8. Additional Chief Secretary / Principal Secretary / Secretary to Government of Maharashtra

Tourism and Cultural Affairs Department

9. Additional Chief Secretary / Principal Secretary / Secretary to Government of Maharashtra /

Director General of Information and Public Relation Government of Maharashtra

10. Additional Chief Secretary / Principal Secretary / Secretary to Government of Maharashtra

Environment and Climate Change Department

11. Member Secretary, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board

12. Director of Information Technology, Government of Maharashtra

13. Director Municipal Administration, Government of Maharashtra

14. Director of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, Government of Maharashtra

Copy for Information:-

1. The Private Secretary to Hon'ble Minister, Environment and Climate Change

Department, Mantralaya, Mumbai-32.

2. The Private Secretary to Hon'ble State Minister, Environment and Climate Change

Department, Mantralaya, Mumbai-32.

Page 4 of 4