--- Source page 1 ---

According to the Disability Persons Rights Act, 2016, the Department of Environment and Environmental Change (Department of Environmental and Climate Change itself) is responsible for ensuring the employment of persons with disabilities.

Maharashtra government

Department of Environment and Environmental Change

No. :- Aštha-2018/P.R. 286 /Establishment

Huttama Rajguru Square, Madam Kama Road,

Ministry, Mumbai 400 032.

Date: June 17, 2021.

Read:- 9) Disabled Persons Rights Act, 2016

2) Department of Social Justice and Special Assistance Government Circular No.

Procedure 251/D.K.2, 12.11.2020

3) Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of India, New Delhi

Notice dated 04.01.2021

4 Department of Social Justice and Special Assistance Government Decision No.

It is the second day of the year.

5) Department of Social Justice and Special Assistance Governance Decree No.

Day two, day two, February 2, 2021.

6) Department of Social Justice and Special Assistance A.S.P.C. Diyang -2021/Narrow 11/D.K.2

Letter dated 21.05.2021

7 Letter from the Department of Social Justice and Welfare.

दि. 01/06/2021

The preamble is:

For this purpose, the Union Government has made a list of posts secured for persons with disabilities under the notification of D.4.01.2021 on the website www.cisabilityatfairs.gov.in of the Union government at Policy/Act/Rules-Notification under the heading List of Post Identification Suitable for Persons with Benchmark Disability notified on 09.09.2029.

Government decision:-

Social Justice and Development of the Union Government under Section 33 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016

Ministry of Officials, New Delhi The Union Government has made known the list of positions secured for the disabled by the notification dated 04.01.2021. The Union government has submitted the positions in the secured Kerala Group A to G Group W to the State Government for the recognition of the categories of positions under the aegis of the Department of Social Justice and Special Assistance for disabled persons as per the Government decision dated 02.02.2021 of the notification, Madha No.

--- Source page 2 ---

Governance Decree No: Aštha-2018/P.R. 286/Establishment

By letter dated 09.0§.2029 from the Department of Social Justice and Welfare,

Department of Environment and Environmental Change (Department of Environmental and Climate Change) with positions in the Technical Staff and the Military Staff

As indicated in the attached Statement, positions in 4 categories will be ensured for the disabled.

आहे.

3. Sadr Jasan Decision, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Union Government, New Delhi

Notice of Delhi dated 04.01.2021 and Governance of the Department of Social Justice dated 02.02.2021

They are being discharged as per the decision given.

4. Good Governance Decisions are available on the website of the Government of Maharashtra at www.maharashtr.gov.in.

The Government has made this decision digitally with the code number 202106171721490204.

It is being signed and certified.

In the name and order of the Governor of Maharashtra, Manohar

Ramchandra 01011

Bandpatte set nooo

Withdrawal letter: Statement-A.

Our Secretary, Government of Maharashtra

to copy,

1, Ma. Secretary to the Governor, Raj Bhavan, Malbar Hill, Mumbai

2. Ma. Chief Secretary, Ministry, Mumbai

3. Minister (Department of Environment and Climate Change) Ministry, Mumbai,

4. Minister of State (Department of Environment and Climate Change) Ministry, Mumbai,

5. Chief Secretary, Ministry, Mumbai

6. Chief Secretary, Department of Social Justice and Special Assistance, Ministry, Mumbai

7. M. Principal Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Climate Change, Mumbai,

8. Commissioner, Disability Welfare, Commission, Pune,

9. Deputy Secretary (Department of Environment and Environmental Change), Ministry, Mumbai

10. Selectivity.

Page 2 of 2

--- Source page 3 ---

Department of Environment and Environmental Change

Statement of accounts A

The Right of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 on the Establishment of Government/Institutional Offices in the Service of State Governments and Department of General Administration

On rescheduling the posts according to the ruling of the government of the day

A.C. Class Appointments Physical Qualifications Disabled Class Leadership Responsibilities and Duties

1) Director S,ST.W.MF.RW.SE.H,C_LV to develop proposals and plans for environmental protection and conservation.

2) HH, assisting in setting the state's environmental policy,

3) OL,OA,LC,AAV,DW.

¥) ASD(M), SLD,MI to help governments build, environmental protection and

4) MD including a to d measures for defence, development projects and

Environmental evaluation of the above industrial projects

To reduce the negative impact on the environment.

Suggestion of measures, Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 and others

State level of notices published under

Implementation of the Environmental Licensing Conditions

Monitoring of compliance, as well as Ministry

Conduct judicial and legislative affairs.

1) Technical verification of industrial and leisure projects.

2) HH

3) OL,OA,LC,AAV,DW 2) Environmental pollution, pollution control techniques, clean

8) gathering information on ASD (M), SLD, MI manufacturing techniques, etc.

4)MD including a to d to the general public/NGOs

Working above

3) Environmental education and related public awareness programme

To organize in Maharashtra state.

4 Water Act 1974, Air Act 1981 and Hazardous Waste

Study of appeals under the Act 1989

Doing

5) Development related to forests and environment in the coastal sector

Ministry (MOEF) Government of India, New Delhi

Looking at the terms of the CRZ Acts

--- Source page 4 ---

6) study of EIA of hazardous solid waste disposal sites and

The decree is to be issued.

7 Storage, handling and use of hazardous chemicals

To prevent pollution of the environment.

8) Cooperation with District officials for external emergency management work where there are large-scale hazardous substances producing factories 9) Preparation of emergency management plan for natural disasters e.g. earthquake, air disaster flood etc.

(QO) Reporting on the current state of the environment for each district

11) Environmental channel work in different districts

Coordinating

12) National River Conservation Action Framework for State Treasury and

Coordinating for Cleanliness of Krishna Rivers

13) Legislative affairs

Scientific category: 1.15 / 57.57. - 7.14 1. Technical verification of industrial and leisure projects

2) HH

3) OL,OA,LC,AAV,DW 2) Environmental pollution, pollution control, clean

¥) ASD(M), SLD, MI manufacturing techniques etc.

4)MD including a to d to the general public/NGOs

Working above

3) Environmental education and related public awareness programme

To organize in Maharashtra state.

4 Water Act 1974, Air Act 1981 and Hazardous Waste

Study of appeals under the Act 1989

Doing

Ministry of Forests and Environment (MOEF) Review of the Conditions of CRZ Acts made by Government of India, New Delhi

--- Source page 5 ---

$$

a

6 EIA study of hazardous solid waste disposal sites and

The decree is to be issued.

7) Accident prevention of storage, handling and use of hazardous chemicals

To prevent pollution of the environment.

8) with the district officials where there is a high risk of death.

There are food factories outside.

Cooperation for emergency management work

9) Develop an emergency management plan where:

It is natural.

Disasters

For example, the earthquake.

Accident

पूर

I.M. District Attorney

Cooperation in Natural Disasters

For example, earthquakes, air accidents, floods, etc.

Developing a management plan

(q) State of the environment for each district

Making a report

11) Environmental channel work in different districts

Coordinating

12) National River Conservation Action Framework for State Treasury and

Coordinating for Cleanliness of Krishna Rivers

13) Legislative affairs

8)

♪ The soldier ♪

S,ST,W,L.KC,PP,MF,

a)B,LV

1) Office opening, office tables, chair dust

RW,SE,C

b)D,HH

Shock, office crutches, and mail-in.

c)OA,OL,OAL,

Supplying tea and coffee to officers as needed, senior

CP,LC,DW, AAV

The office tasks entrusted by the officer, as well as

d)ASD(M,MOD),ID,

Performing the duties of a soldier in the service

SLD,MI

e)MD Involving

(a) to (d) above

Abbreviations: Physical fitness

PHYSICAL REQUIREMENT ABBREVIATIONS USED:S=Sitting,ST=Standing, W=Walking, BN=Bending, L=Lifting, KC=Kneeling & Crouching,

JU=Jumping, CRL= Crawling, CL=Climbing, PP=Pulling & Pushing, MF=Manipulation with Fingers, RW= Reading & Writing, SE= Seeing,

H=Hearing, C=Communication

--- Source page 6 ---

Abbreviations: Disabled people

CATEGORY ABBREVIATIONS USED : B= Bind, LV=Low Vison, D=Deaf, HH=Hard of Hearing, OA= One Arm, OL=One leg, BA= Both Arms, BL= Both Leg, OAL= One Arm and One leg, BLOA= Both leg & one arm. BLA= Both Legs Arms. CP= Cerebral Palsy, LC= Leprosy Cured,

Dw= Dwarfism, AAV= Acid Attack Victims, MDy= Muscular Dystrophy, ASD= Autism Spectrum Disorder ( M= Mild, MoD= Moderate), ID= Intellectual Disability, SLD= Specific Learning Disability, MI= Mental IlIness, MD= Multiple Disabilities.