--- Source page 1 ---

On the establishment of the Maharashtra Council for Climate Change (MCCC).

Government of Maharashtra Department of Environment and Environmental Change Government Decision No.: Mawa A 2021/P.R.121/Tan.K.1 Madam Kama Road, Huttama Rajguru Square, Ministry, Mumbai- 400 032 Date: 26th November, 2021 Proposal:

The Joint Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has been working on climate change.

The Organization of Nations has submitted a report in August 2021.

The decision taken during the presentation to the Cabinet on 1st September, 2021

Adaptation to the impacts of climate change and SISA mitigation

The matter of convening the Maharashtra Council on Climate Change was under consideration by the Government.

Considering the provisions of the Resolution, the Governments of Maharashtra Environmental

Amendment Council approves the establishment of:-

One, one, two, three.

2nd. Deputy Chief Minister with Chairman

3 Ma. Minister, Member of Revenue

4th. Minister, Member for Urban Development

Minister, Member of Water Resources

The MA. Minister, member of industry

7th. Minister, Energy Member

8th. Minister, Transport Member

9th. Minister, Member of Agriculture

40 min. Minister, member for rural development.

I'm a minister, a member.

12th. Minister, Disaster Management Member

Minister, Environment and Environmental Change Member

14th Ma. Member of the General Secretariat

15th Secretary General, Environment and Environmental Change Members Secretary

--- Source page 2 ---

Government Decision No: MAWAW 2021/P.R.121/TAN.K.1

2. Maharashtra Environmental Change Council Adapting to the impacts of climate change in the state

It is important to develop a timely action plan for adaptation and mitigation and to ensure its effectiveness.

It will monitor and evaluate the implementation.

The Government of Maharashtra has taken a decision on the website www.maharshtra.gov.in.

The code of this order is 202111291311370904.

It is being digitally signed and authenticated.

By order and name of the Governor of Maharashtra.

0000000100 was coming.

(Laughter)

Joint Secretary, Government of Maharashtra

A copy,

1. Ma. Principal Secretary to the Governor, Raj Bhavan, Mumbai.

2. Deputy Chief Secretary to the Chief Minister, Ministry, Mumbai.

3. Secretary to Deputy Chief Minister, Ministry, Mumbai.

4. Minister, Private Secretary of Revenue, Ministry, Mumbai.

5. Minister, Private Secretary of Municipal Development, Ministry, Mumbai.

6. Minister, Private Secretary to the Minister of Water Resources, Ministry, Mumbai.

7. Minister, Private Secretary of Industry, Ministry, Mumbai.

8. Minister, Private Secretary, Ministry of Energy, Mumbai.

9. Minister, Private Secretary to the Minister of Transport, Ministry, Mumbai.

10. Minister, Private Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Mumbai.

11. M. Minister, Private Secretary of Village Development, Ministry, Mumbai.

12. Minister, Private Secretary to the Minister, Ministry, Mumbai.

13. Minister, Private Secretary of Disaster Management, Ministry, Mumbai.

14. Minister, Private Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Climate Change, Mumbai.

15. Minister of State, Private Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Climate Change, Mumbai.

16. Mr. Speaker, Maharashtra Legislative Council, Secretariat of the Maharasha Legislature, Mumbai.

17. Chairman, Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, Secretariat of the Maharasha Legislature, Mumbai.

18. Ma. Leader of the Opposition, Legislative Assembly/Assembly, Maharashtra Assembly Secretariat, Mumbai.

19, Deputy Speaker, Maharashtra Legislative Council, Secretariat of the Maharasha Legislature, Mumbai.

20. Ma. Deputy Speaker, Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, Secretariat of the Maharasha Legislature, Mumbai.

21. Ma. Chief Secretary, Ministry, Mumbai.

22. Principal Secretary, Department of Environment and Climate Change, Ministry, Mumbai.

23. Deputy Chief Secretary/ Principal Secretary/Secretary, Ministry departments (all)

Chairman, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, Mumbai.

Page 3 of 2

--- Source page 3 ---

Government Decision No: MAWAW 2021/P.R.121/TAN.K.1

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

All departmental agencies

All the district attorneys.

Member Secretary, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, Mumbai all the CEOs, District Council Commissioners, all the Municipalities.

Chief Magistrate, all city councils / city panchayats.

Page 3 of 3