--- Source page 1 ---

Under my Vasundhara Mission, we have set up an inter-departmental committee to conduct online field assessment of local self-government bodies.

Maharashtra government

Department of Environment and Environmental Change

Governance decision, number campaign 2021 / Procedure 51/than.k.1

Shahid Bhagat Singh Square, Madam Kama Road,

Ministry, Mumbai 400032

Dated 18th May, 2021

Read: (1) Governance Decisions, Environment and Environmental Change Section No.

Pr.C.134/ TANK-1, dated 14th October, 2020

(2) The final toolkit of my Vasundhara campaign

The preface:

As per Government Decree No.1 dated 14th October, 2020, 'Majhi Vasundhara Abhiyan' is being implemented in the State's Civilian Local Government Authorities and Gram Panchayats based on the five principles related to the nature of earth, gas, water, fire and sky.

2. The duration of the Mission was set to 31 March 2021.

In view of the state of Corona throughout the year, I am requested by the local authorities.

To give local institutions the opportunity to work under Vassundhara Mission,

The deadline was extended till April 15, 2021.

3. As stated in the Governance Decree and Toolkit dated 14th October 2020 at Reference No. 1, the assessment of the work done by the Local Government Authorities during the campaign period was scheduled to be conducted in two phases, the first of which is to be carried out by the local self-government entities through a tryout system based on the information provided by the MIS on the web portal, and the second phase is to carry out the actual verification of the works carried out in the tryouts through the Tryout System through the Local Self-Government Entities through the city/village.

--- Source page 2 ---

Governance Decree No: Campaign 2021 / Procedure 51/TAN.K.1

Accordingly, May CH Environmental Solutions, Pune, and May Moody International (Intertech) have been appointed as the Trilateral Mechanism for Field Assessment.

5. To make desktop assessments after the expiry of the extended period of the campaign.

Desktop Assessment is being conducted through designated agency.

Due to Corona, lockdown-like restrictions have been imposed across the state. These restrictions were extended till 31st May, 2021.

7. To the Local Self-Government Organizations that are doing well under My Vasundhara Mission.

The awards ceremony will be held on the occasion of World Environment Day on 5th June.

It is planned to be done in 2021.

Given the above situation, the Government was considering setting up an inter-departmental committee to assess the field of some of the best local organisations in each group (vertical) following the completion of the desktop assessment of the work done by the Local Self-Government Authorities under My Vasundhara Mission.

Government decision:

Taking into account the provisions of the resolution, the Government is approving the adoption of the following approaches for field assessment of My Vasundhara Mission and the setting up of a committee at the departmental level as follows:-

(1) A system of desktop assessing is being introduced by local self-government bodies.

Each group reviewed the documents and evaluated them accordingly.

In (vertical) (Amrits cities, municipal councils, city panchayats and village panchayat)

My Vasundhara campaign details the top 10 local self-government bodies.

Submit to the Directorate by 24 May 2021.

(2) The Government is approving the online verification of the work done by these Local Self-Government Authorities due to the current COVID restrictions.

Page 4 of 2

--- Source page 3 ---

Governance Decree No: Campaign 2021 / Procedure 51/TAN.K.1

(3) Under the Department of Environment and Environment to conduct online verification

The Government is approving the formation of the Committee of Officials as follows:-

(a) Director, Department of Environment, Environment and Environmental Change

Chairman

(b) Deputy Secretary (Establishment), Department of Environment and Environmental Change

Members

(a) Mission Director, My Vasundhara Mission Directorate

Member - Secretary

(4) The procedure of head inspection shall be as follows: -

The best Yo out of every group in my Vasundhara campaign.

Life expectancy of relevant municipalities on behalf of local bodies

Deputy Director of Municipal Councils / Nagar Panchayats and Gram Panchayat

The Development Officers/Gram Servants shall be appointed by the Committee as set out above.

They'll be presenting online on a given day and at a given time.

Related persons will be sent separately.

According to my Vasundhara Campaign Toolkit, each of the thematic areas

He was also given a presentation of his work on indicators.

Each local organization has 30 minutes for this presentation.

It will provide them with some of the sites for each thematic area online.

(Live) The details will be given separately.

(4) Each of the above (1) is presented by a desktop assessing system.

Top 10 cities in the group (vertically)

The Committee shall submit its report to the Government by May 39, 2021.

It should be presented.

(6) Taking into account the report submitted by the Steering Committee,

(Vertical) (Amrit cities, Municipal councils, Nagar Panchayats and Gram Panchayat)

Electrician will announce on or before World Environment Day.

2

The Government of Maharashtra has taken the decision on the website www.maharshtra.gov.in.

The code number is 202105201422525804.

The order is being digitally signed and authenticated.

By order and name of the Governor of Maharashtra.

9400032,

Manohar Ramchandra

3067528,

Bandpatte

(Applause from the audience)

Our Secretary, Government of Maharashtra

A copy,

1

Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, Ministry, Mumbai.

Page 4 of 3

--- Source page 4 ---

Governance Decision No: campaign 2021 / Procedure 511/than.k.1

2. Minister, Private Secretary, Environment and Climate Change.

3. Minister of State, Private Secretary, Environment and Climate Change.

4. Ma. Chief Secretary, Ministry, Mumbai.

5. Principal Secretary, Department of Environment and Climate Change, Ministry, Mumbai.

6. All departmental commissioners

7. All the district governors.

8. Member Secretary, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, Mumbai

9. All CEOs, District Council

10. Commissioner, all the municipalities.

11. Chief Magistrate, all city councils/ city panchayats.

12. Village Development Officers / Village Servants, all the village panchayats included in the campaign

13. Selection

Page 4 of 4