--- Source page 1 ---

Jyotiba is a place of worship, Mauje Vadiratnagiri, Tha.

Kapurbhav (Karpureshwar) in Panhala district of Kolhapur

The pool.

The environment

District for Conservation

The project is being implemented by the Council.

On the distribution of funds for works

Maharashtra government

Department of Environment and Environmental Change

Government Certificate number: Rasoyo-2021/Prc.11/Establishment (a)

The new administration building, 15th floor, Houtama Rajguru Square,

Madame Kama Road, Mumbai 400 032

Date: 30th March, 2022

वाचा :-

1) Department of Environment Governance Decree No. Rasoyo-2021/Prc.11/Establishment (a),

Date: 29th March, 2022

Government Certificate:-

For the above context, as mentioned in the third paragraph of the Governance Decree.

Rupees to be paid to officials, district councils, Kolhapur 45,02,814/- (Rupees.

Two thousand eight hundred and fourteen (just) so much money from the Treasury through a surcharge and an accountant.

Withdrawal and transfer to pay the CEO, District Council, Kolhapur

Shilpa Ch. Shirke, Chief Executive Officer, Department of Environment and Climate Change and

As Controller Officer, Shri Su.K. Nikam, Co-Secretary, Department of Environment and Climate Change,

The Ministry is being announced as the Chief Executive Officer, District Council, Kolhapur

They received Rs 45,02,814/- (Rupees Rs.

The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Mumbai, should act to distribute separate credits.

Rather

ढ्ढ 3

Payments to Chief Executive Officer, District Council, Kolhapur

This is the amount of money earned by the Finance Department.

Governance Decree No. Narrow 2020/Prc.6/20/Kosha-Prasha 5, dated 92.99.2029

Direct deposits to the bank account of the Chief Executive Officer, District Council, Kolhapur via e-Kuber system

Let's read this.

--- Source page 2 ---

Government Certificate No: Rasoyo-2021/Prc.11/Establishment

The Government of Maharashtra's official website is www.maharashtr.gov.in.

This Certificate has been made available with code 202203301456209504.

Certified by digital signature.

By order and name of the Governor of Maharashtra.

A copy,

Digitally signed by SURYAKANT KISAN NIKAM DN:

SURYAKANT KISAN oso NIKAM Sanction cssostegnosave ot SNS?

Joint Secretary, Department of Environment and Climate Change Government of Maharashtra

Auditor General (Accounting and Licensing/ Audit), Maharashtra 1/2, Mumbai/ Nagpur.

Chief Executive Officer, District Council, Kolhapur.

Directorate Municipal Council Directorate, Mumbai.

Accounting Officer, Mumbai

Residential accounting examination officer, Mumbai

Private Secretary, Minister of State, Environment and Climate Change, Ministry, Mumbai

Private Secretary, Minister of State, Ministry of Environment and Climate Change, Mumbai.

Self Assistant, Chief Secretary, Department of Environment and Climate Change, Ministry, Mumbai

9.

Self Assistant, Principal Secretary, Department of Urban Development, Ministry, Mumbai.

10. Department of Finance (Business No Expenditure-16/Economics-7), Ministry of Finance, Mumbai

11. Department of Planning, Office No.1472, Ministry, Mumbai.

12. Department of Finance, Environment and Climate Change, Ministry, Mumbai.

13. Selection.

Page 2 of 2