--- Source page 1 ---

Procedures for reimbursement of the newly defined contribution pension scheme (DCPS) to teachers and non-teaching staff in subsidized special schools/workshops/children's homes for handicapped persons

Maharashtra government

Department of Disability Welfare,

Governance Decree No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 165/ D. C. 1

31, 32, 35A metal tower, 3rd floor wing,

Barrister Rajni Patel Road, Nariman Point, Mumbai - 400021.

Date: 26th April, 2024.

Read: 1) Governance Decisions, Finance Department number: Annio-1005 / 126 / Services-4, dated 31

In October, 2005,

2) Governance Decree, Finance Department number: Annio-1007 / 18 / Services-4, dated 7 July,

2007,

3) Government Circular, Finance Department number: Annio-1009 / Pr. No. 32 / Services-4, dated

August 18th, 2009,

4) Governance Decisions, Finance Department number: Annio-1009 / Pr.1 / Services-4, dated 12

It was November, 2010.

5) Department of Governance Decisions, Social Justice and Special Assistance No.

No. 478 / Astha-2, dated 9th November, 2012,

6) Department of Governance Decisions, Social Justice and Special Assistance Number: COM-2014 /

(Computer), dated 1st March, 2014, by letter dated 22/14/14.

7) Government Notice, Department of General Administration, number: Branches 2022 / Pr. No. 67 /

18 (R. V. K.), dated 15th December, 2022.

The preface is as follows:

Governance of the Department of Finance at Reference No. 1 dated 31 October 2005

For employees appointed on or after November 1, 2005 by decision

The new defined contribution pension scheme has come into effect.

Implementation Procedures Reference No. 2 of the Department of Finance dated July 7, 2007 Government

In accordance with Article 24 of this Government Decree,

If the employee dies or has reached the prescribed age (e.g. 58 / 60 years, retirement age).

Noting that provisions relating to retirement benefits will be issued separately,

It's here.

--- Source page 2 ---

Governance Decree No: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 165/ D. C. 1

2. and who were in Government service before 1st November 2005 and 1st

Second State pensioner who entered the service on or after November, 2005

Under the new defined contribution pension scheme, subscriptions have been reduced.

According to the circular dated 18th August 2009 in reference No. 3

All the provisions of the Maharashtra Civil Services (pension) Rules, 1982 have come into force.

Procedures for enforcement in cases dated 12 at Reference No. 4 of the Finance Department.

It has been established by the Government Decree of November 2010.

Subsidies approved and subsidized by the District Council in accordance with paragraph 6 of the Decision

Government Primary and Secondary Schools, Agricultural Universities and Affiliates

Accredited and Subsidized Government Colleges, Agricultural Universities etc.

The Department of Disability Welfare (DWW) has introduced the right changes to the workforce.

100% Subsidized Special Schools / Workshops / Matimand for Controlled Persons with Disabilities

Teacher/non-teaching staff in 100% subsidized posts in Children's Children's Home

The matter of enforcement of the provisions was under consideration.

Decisions of the Government:-

100 per cent of persons with disabilities in the State under the control of the Department of Disability Welfare.

Subsidized Special Schools / Workshops / Matrimonial Children's Children's Home 100% Subsidized

State defined contribution pension to teachers / non-teaching staff in positions

Employees who are covered by the DCPS scheme will be reimbursed the amount of the contribution in the following circumstances:

Action should be taken as attached attachment 1.

1

If an employee dies in the line of duty,

If the employee resigns before the statutory age (58/60 years, in fact),

If the employee retires according to the prescribed age (58/60 years, in fact),

who joined another service in the State on or after 1st November, 2005

The provisions of the Maharashtra Civil Services (pension) Rules, 1982 came into force for employees.

The newly defined contributions of such employees are deducted from the subscription under the Pension Scheme.

If it was done,

(ii) the amount accrued under the defined contribution pension scheme and

The amount of the cost of the refund shall be entered in the following accounts.

(1) (a) defined contribution pension scheme of the Department of Disability Welfare

Employee contributions of recognised and subsidised institutions under control (Level 1)

AD

3

8

) ) ) )

Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ----------------------------------

The order number. G-99 G-99

8342 other deposits 8342, other deposits

The Deputy Chief Accountant.

Subsection 117 Defined contribution pension 117, Defined contribution

pension scheme

Page 2 of 6

--- Source page 3 ---

Governance Decree No: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 165/ D. C. 1

Group top pods

Sub-group top (00 (20 accredited grants)

Residential or non-residential schools for the disabled.

In the meantime contribution under Defined

contribution pension scheme for working class/mattimanda children's homes

Full-time and Yo-Kee are approved. Aided.

Teachers and residential / non-residential in subsidized posts

Subsidies, dissemination rights and special schools/workshops

Teaching staff eggs for people with disabilities.

children home for mentally

deficient persons. (Tier-1

The computer code is 83425544 83425544

(b) Under the defined contribution pension scheme under the control of the Department of Welfare for Disabled Persons.

Employee contributions of accredited and subsidized institutions (Level 2)

The title of the article is the English title of the article.

8342 other deposits 8342, other deposits

Deputy Chief of Staff foo 0 1

Subsection 117 Defined contribution pension 117, Defined contribution

pension scheme

Top of the group.

Subgroups (02) (23) Accredited Disabled People (02) (23) Teaching and Non-

Subsidized residential / non-residential schools / teaching staff

Workshops _ Contribution to the workplace under Defined

The contribution pension scheme for working-class children.

ara full time and oo percent for approved within. aided

Subsidized [teacher and residential/ non-residential in fixed positions]

Js The Staff Special Schools / Workshops

SSA for people with disabilities.

children home for mentally

deficient persons. (Tier-2

The computer code is 23824443.

Q Defined contribution Pension Scheme (Government contribution) for employees of recognised and subsidised institutions under the control of Department of Disability Welfare

Title Title Title Title Title Title Title Title Title Title Title Title Title Title Title Title Title Title

The order number is G-99 G-99

8342 other deposits 8342, other deposits

Deputy Chief Accountant foo 0

Subsection 117 Defined contribution pension 117, Defined contribution

pension scheme

Top of the group.

Subgroup Top (03) (15) Accredited disabled people (03) (15)

Subsidized residential / non-residential schools / workshops / kindergartens for mothers

contribution under Defined contribution pension scheme for approved भात. aided residential / non-residential

Page 3 out of 6

--- Source page 4 ---

Governance Decree No: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 165/ D. C. 1

Including employer contributions to full-time and Yoo subsidized positions.

special schools / workshops

for persons with disabilities / children home for mentally deficient persons.

A computer code

83425562 83425562

(3) Teachers of accredited and subsidized institutions under the control of the Department of Disability Welfare

Implementation of defined contribution pension scheme collected from non-teaching staff

The return -

Uh, serfs. The English name of the account.

The order number is G-99 G-99

8342 Other deposits 8342, Other deposits

Deputy Chief Accountant foo 00

Subsection 117 Defined contribution pension 117, Defined contribution

pension scheme

Group leaders.

Subgatarshirsh (04) (07) Recognized persons with disabilities.

Subsidized residential / non-residential school / Defined contribution pension

Mattimanda scheme for Teaching and

Employees of non-teaching organizations.

Full-time and Yoo percent approved and assisted.

Subsidized [teacher and residential/ non-residential in fixed positions]

Special schools / workshops for staff

Teaching staff defined for persons with disabilities.

Contributions to the pension scheme. Children home for mentally ill.

Returns deficient persons.

Refunds

The computer code is 83420301.

8. Ward Title - Interest on defined contribution pension scheme contribution

The title of the article is Marathi name of the title is English name.

The order number is ZI-01.

2049 - interest payments - 2049 interest payments

Under 60 - Other liabilities interest 60 - Interest on Other

Obligations

Sub-top 101 interest on deposits

Group 1 - Defined eggs pension 01- Defined Contribution

Pension Scheme

Subgroup Top 01) 09) Accredited disabled people

Defined as full-time and percentage of teachers and non-teaching staff in subsidized residential / non-residential schools / workshops / kindergartens

Goo

Contributions under the Pension Scheme

contribution under Defined contribution pension scheme

for Teaching and _ Non- teaching Employees of approved and aided

residential / non-residential special schools / workshops for persons with disabilities /

Page 4 out of 6

--- Source page 5 ---

Governance Decree No: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 165/ D. C. 1

Interest on contributions children home for mentally deficient persons.

Compulsory - Committed - Charged

The computer code is 20492872.

3. The amount under this Scheme shall be paid to the employee/employee's inheritance in respect of the above.

Authorized Ayukta, Divyaang Kalyan, Pune to approve the return from the title

These expenses are to be covered by the allowance granted for that financial year.

4. Good governance decision with the consent of the Ministry of Finance and informal reference No. 54/Eth-2,

In accordance with the approval given on 19th April, 2024, the Principal Auditor General shall be appointed as such.

Office (Accounting and Licensing), Maharashtra-1, Mumbai informal reference number No.

/ Cha-1 / Department of Disability Welfare / UOR-210 / 2023-24 / 01, dated 1st April, 2024

It is being discharged according to the above assumptions.

4, Government decision of the Government of Maharashtra

The code is 202404261141281135 and is available on the website.

This order is being certified by digital signature.

In the name and order of the Governor of Maharashtra,

Co-paper: attachment-1, sample A, B, C, D, etc.

RAJESH BHASKAR A LALA MAHARASHTRA, OU = PERSONS WITH GAIKWAD She cnoouanianse asa" Our Secretary, Government of Maharashtra copy:

He is also a member of the Rajya Sabha.

He is also a member of the Rajya Sabha.

1) Chief Accountant (Accounting Officer) - 1, Maharashtra, Mumbai,

The Chief Accountant (Accounting Officer) - 2, Maharashtra, Nagpur,

) Director, Accounting and Treasurer, Mumbai,

)

)

)

Co-Director, State Records Maintenance Agency, Mumbai,

Audit and Accounting Officer, Andhra (East), Mumbai,

Chief Accountant, Local Funds Accounting, Kokan Bhawan, Belapur, New Mumbai,

With Director, Local Fund Accounting, Mumbai / Pune / Nagpur / Aurangabad / Amravati / Thane, all Regional Deputy Commissioners, Department of Social Welfare,

Our Secretary, Department of Finance Office Expenditure-14 / Services-4 / Finance-2, Ministry, Mumbai

Residential accounting officer, Mumbai,

All district treasurer officers,

Go

119

12

13

) ) ) )

Page 5 out of 6

--- Source page 6 ---

Governance Decree No: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 165/ D. C. 1

14) Commissioner, Disabled Welfare, Pune,

15) All auxiliary agencies, social welfare department,

16) All district social welfare officers, district councils,

)

17) Selectionism.

Page 6 of 6

--- Source page 7 ---

Governance Decree, Department of Disability Welfare, number: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 165/ D. K. 1, date:

The correspondence of April, 2024.

Addition '1'

Subsidized Vishwash Schools for the Disabled under the control of Department of Disability Welfare

Teachers in 100 per cent subsidized posts in workshops and nursery

Teaching staff who died in the line of duty/before the prescribed age (58/60 years of age)

Retired or otherwise retired, in service after 1st November, 2005

The date of appointment will be 1st of November.

Action to be taken in respect of employees given prior to 2005

1) The action to be taken by an employee's heir/employee- defined contribution pension scheme if the employee dies in the service of the employed person, the person nominated by that employee or, if the person is not nominated, the heir who can be nominated under the current Government Provident Fund, must submit a sample (sample-a) with the relevant withdrawal amount deposited in the account of such employee, together with the death certificate of that worker.

2) The withdrawal and transfer officer (ODO) shall act as the withdrawing and delivery officer of the relevant district as the District Social Welfare Officer, District Council. The withholding and distribution officer shall submit to the DTO a copy of the employee's inheritance application, as well as the copy of death certificate/employees' application, and the statement of death/employee expired, including a statement of accounts (Statement of Accounts) of the financial year prior to/before that year.

3) Action to be taken by the DTO: District Social Welfare of the relevant district

Officials, District Council will act as DTOs.

--- Source page 8 ---

The amount of subscription deposited in the account of the relevant employee after receipt from the Removal and Delivery Officers shall be checked from their broad sheets and lasers.

4) Action to be taken by the Commissioner, Disabled Welfare, Pune: Based on the information received along with the application of the withdrawal and transfer officer (sample-a), the Commisser, disabled welfare, Pune shall issue a return order (model-e) in parallel with this deposit amount. A copy of this order shall be sent to the relevant DTO and a second copy to the related withdrawing and transfer officers.

Subsequently, the withdrawal and delivery officers will submit the payment under this order.

A simple receipt (sample 45-a) must be submitted.

Amount of refund provided under defined contribution pension scheme

"8342 Other deposits, (00) 117- new defined contribution pension scheme, (04) (07) new

Expenditure is to be charged under the defined contribution pension scheme (83420301).

(5) Interest payable: (a) The heir of a deceased employee shall pay the government contribution and interest thereon together with the employee's contribution. (b) The employee who has retired before the prescribed period shall pay government contribution with his own execution and interest on it. (c) After the succession of the amount of the contributions deposited under the contribution pension scheme as defined by the government in respect of employees who have been compulsorily retired, the government contributor shall pay his and his contributions and interest until the date of his compulsory retirement.

KKKKKEKKKEKKEKKKER

--- Source page 9 ---

Governance Decree, Department of Disability Welfare, No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 165 / D. C. 1, dated

The correspondence of April, 2024.

Example - a

Application by deceased employee's heir/service terminator for the return of written deposits of employees under defined contribution pension scheme

Name and full address of heir/employee Date: Copy,

Withdrawal and Delivery Officer, Office Name and Address

Subject: Defined contribution on the return of sums accrued under the Pension Scheme.

Ma'am / Sir,

1 My husband / wife / brother / sister / son / daughter / ka.shri. / Mrs............ va were working under the control of the Department of Disabled Welfare at -------------- on the date......... 8... they were working until the date............ they died while in the service on......... so their service is terminated from the date...... while in service they were a member of the defined contribution pension scheme.

They have nominated me to receive income under the defined contribution pension scheme, but I am their heir in accordance with the provisions of the Provident Funds Rules, 19.

A.A.R. has a relationship with a dead employee.

2) I would like to sign the following:

Under control, this is the date that the date is running.

--- Source page 10 ---

My service is terminated due to my resignation from the service due to the fact that I have been discharged from the Service due to a disability due to termination of my service in accordance with the prescribed age due to this reason my service has been terminated from the date (for which reason to be mentioned). I was a member of the defined contribution pension scheme scheme when I was in service.

In my monthly salary, the sachet and sachet bills are calculated as follows: (i) The details of the employee's required number at the time of his/her death are: (ii) the number of the applicant to join the service on the date of termination of service.

Location :-

The date :- ()

--- Source page 11 ---

Governance Decree, Department of Disability Welfare, number: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 165/ D. K. 1, date:

The correspondence of April, 2024.

Example-B

Application for receipt of information on the written deposits of the employee under the contribution pension scheme defined by the withdrawal and distribution officer at the time of termination of employee service

Name and address of the office on the date, DTO, Subject:- Defined Contribution Retirement Scheme on sending a statement (Sample-E-1) for the return of the amount accrued under the defined contribution pension scheme.

The beneficiary is a member of the defined contribution pension scheme. He/she has received an application for a refund of the amount accrued by the employee due to termination of his/her service for the above reasons to the he/she nominated heir. Accordingly, the details of the former employee are presented as follows:

This is a certified retirement plan where the employee is required to complete the following ten days of service up to and including the dates of service: the account; the retirement; the termination of employment; the details of the current office; the yearly retirement number of the Treasurer; the number of retirements; the address; the name of the position; the date of appointment; the final retirement amount of the relevant financial year; the last retirement income of the financial year.

--- Source page 12 ---

Please send a statement of the amount deposited in the account of the head employee as the Head employee is employed in the functional office of the Treasury as detailed below.

It is accompanied by a copy of the employee's application / copy of heirs' application / death certificate as well as the original copy / copies of the statement (s) received from the other relevant treasurer.

With:- 1) Application of heir/employee.

2) Indication of death.

3) Synchronous statement / statement (original copy).

Our faithful ones

(Signature) (Expeditionary officer)

--- Source page 13 ---

Governance Decree, Department of Disability Welfare, number: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 165/ D. K. 1, date:

The correspondence of April, 2024.

Example-a

Apply to Ayukta, Disability Welfare, Pune for return of written deposits of employees under the contribution pension scheme as defined by the withdrawal and distribution officer

Office name and address Date

Subject: Defined Contributions on the return of the amount accrued under the Pension Scheme.

Ma'am / Sir,

Employees employed in this office Mr. / Mrs................ are terminated from the date of termination of their employment due to the death of their employee on the date ---- because they have resigned from the service on the day of.................. due to their voluntary retirement from the work on that date. They are being dismissed from their employment on that day due to service termination (specify the reason). The employee is a member of the defined contribution pension scheme while in service.

At the end of the term of the scheme, the position of the Treasurer will be the deposit number with the date of termination. The number of the office up to date. The new year's deposit. The financial details of the service. The name of the final year (financial deposits by year) shall be shown.

It is calculated from the salary and the numerical value of the principal payment.

And the date is......

--- Source page 14 ---

In addition, the original copies of the employee application / heir application / death certificate as well as other receipts are attached.

Along with: 1) Application of heir/employee.

2) Indication of death.

3) Accounting in Model R-3 of the financial year

A copy of the Statement of Accounts

Our / our faithful,

(Signature) (Expeditionary officer)

--- Source page 15 ---

Governance Decree, Department of Disability Welfare, number: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 165 / D. C. 1, date:

The correspondence of April, 2024.

Example-D

Statement relating to the sequence of deposits in the written accounts of the employee under the defined contribution pension scheme. (Statement from the Treasurer of the office under the jurisdiction of which the Employee was ultimately employed) (* Indicating the final deposits of the previous year if the year is a statement) (Details shall be drawn up by the financial year.)

Employee name, account number, office name, expiration date.

The position he held when the service ended. The name of the office was the fiscal year.

Details of the employee's letter at the time of termination.

** Opening Balance of the employee's accounts for the previous financial year

Employee's accounts accumulated by the end of the current financial year.

Money is short.

Monthly. Employee contributions. Total interest on the contribution of the employee.

It's March.

It's April.

| मे

kw

Rw

That is August.

It's September.

What is the meaning of life?

This is November.

It's December.

January.

February is certified to be relevant in the employee's personal records and broadcast sheets.

The records are taken in the year as shown above, and if you synchronize the above amounts,

The amount is shown to be correct.

(Name and signature of DTO)

--- Source page 16 ---

Government Decree, Department of Disabled Welfare, No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 165/ D. K. 1, Date: April, 2024 Co-paper. Sample-E Number: Office of disabled welfare agencies, Pune. Date: Read: 1) Governance decree, D.

ran)

Official warrants

In accordance with the petition of the Treasury Officer, Shri. /Mrs. ------------ under No. 2 above with the application received from him, in accordance with his petition No. 3 above, Ayukta, Divyaang Kalyan, Pune has authorized him to return to him, as per the authority obtained by the Government Decree in reference No. 1, an amount of Rs.

Reimbursement is being granted due to the termination of the employee's service from the date of ------------. Expenditure of employee shall be covered under item 83420301.

A copy:

च)

2) Regional sub-units,

3)