--- Source page 1 ---

वाचा :

State defined contribution pension scheme (0975) / National Pension System Scheme (NPS) for teachers and non-teaching staff in subsidized special schools/workshops/children's homes for handicapped persons.

Family Pension and Death Allowance to his family in case of death of an employee in the course of service, sickness pension and retirement pension to sickness retired employee, retirement pensions to retired employees.

Maharashtra government

Department of Disability Welfare,

Government Decision No: EDD-2023 / Pr. No. 169/D.C. 1

31, 32, 35A metal tower, 3rd floor wing,

Barrister Rajni Patel Road, Nariman Point, Mumbai - 400021.

Date: 12th of December 2024.

1) Governance Decisions, Finance Department number: Annio-1005 / 126 / Services-4, dated 31

In October, 2005,

2) Governance Decree, Finance Department number: Annio-1007 / 18 / Services-4, dated 7 July,

2007,

3) Department of Governance Decisions, Social Justice and Special Assistance No.

No. 478 / Astha-2, dated 9th November, 2012,

4 Governance Decree, Finance Department No.: Anno 2012 / Pr. No. 96 / Services-4, dated 27

August, 2014

5) Governance Decisions, Finance Department number: ANNIO-2015 / NPS / Pr. No. 32 / Services-4,

The date is April 6, 2015.

6) Governance Decisions, Ministry of Finance, ANNIO - 2017 / Pr. No. 29 / Service-4, dated 29

What is the meaning of life?

7 Governance Decree, Finance Department No: Ranyo-2022 / Pr. No. 34 / Service-4, dated 31

March, 2023,

8) Government Clearing Paper, Finance Department number: Ranyo-2022 / Pr. No. 34 / Services-4,

The date is April 20, 2023,

9) Governance Circular, Finance Department number: Ranipr-2023 / Pr. No. yo / service-4, dated

August 24, 2023

10) Jasan Decision, Department of Disability Welfare, No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 165 / D.

A. 1, dated 26th April 2024.

--- Source page 2 ---

Government Decision No: EDD-2023 / Pr. No. 169/D.C. 1

11) Jasan Decree, Department of Disability Welfare, No.: EDD-2022 / Pr.

A. 9, dated 4th December, 2024

The preface is as follows:

Appointed to State Government Service on or after 1st November, 2005

Newly defined contribution for employees under Pension Scheme reference No. 1

The scheme has been abolished by the Government Decree dated October 31, 2005.

Rule No. 2 of the Implementation Procedures dated July 7, 2007

Decisions have been made.

2. appointed on or after November 1, 2005 pursuant to this Act.

Accredited and 100% Subsidized Schools with Disabilities

Defined contribution pension scheme for teachers and non-teaching staff in posts

Governance dated 9th November 2012 under Implementation Procedures No.3

Decisions have been made.

3. Defined contribution pension scheme system / National Pension System (NPS)

Maharashtra Civil Services (pension) Act, 1982 to the applicable employees Maharasha Civil

Services (Subscription of Pensions) Rules, 1984 and Benefits of the General Provident Fund

They're not allowed.

4. Defined contributions to state government service pension system / National

If an employee under the Pension System (NPS) dies in the course of service

Their families are entitled to family pension and death benefit and sickness pension.

Employee's pension and pension contributions and retirement benefits

Finance No. 9 in the context of decision on granting pension contributions to employees

The date for the Department is scheduled for 31st March, 2023 by the Governing Council.

Government of India dated 24th August 2023 at reference number 9 of the Ministry of Finance.

Circular, Reference No. 79 dated 31 March 2023, as decided by the Government.

It is important to set out the procedures for licensing of benefits.

State district councils as well as approved private 100% subsidized primary,

Secondary/High Secondary Schools and Agrithar Universities and Affiliates

Accredited and Subsidized Government Colleges and Agricultural Universities and Similar Subsidised

Teachers and non-teaching staff in 100% subsidized posts in institutions

However, separate orders will be issued by the relevant Ministry of Administrative Affairs.

The Finance Department has called on departments to take action on discharge at their level.

According to this notification, 100% of the state's accredited disability grants will be granted.

Teachers in 900% subsidized posts in Special Schools/ Workshops/ Children's Home

And the issue of separate orders for non-teaching staff was under consideration by the government.

Page 2 of 6

--- Source page 3 ---

Government Decision No: EDD-2023 / Pr. No. 169/D.C. 1

Decisions of the Government:-

Recognised persons with disabilities in the State on or after November 1, 2005

100% Subsidized Special Schools/Workshops/Kindergarten of Matrimonial Roots

Teachers and Educational Staff who have a defined contribution pension scheme (DCPS) /

Members of the National Pension Scheme (NPS) are:

(a) Family pension and death allowance for teachers and non-teaching staff in the event of death in the line of duty,

(a) Sickness pension and pension allowances are being applied to teachers and non-teaching staff who have retired from sickness.

Accordingly, Family Pension/Sickness Pension will be applicable to the Head of Family and the Patient Pension holder in accordance with the provisions of the Maharashtra Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1982.

(e) Retirement from 100% Subsidized Schools / Workshops / Matrimonial Children's Home

Retirement allowance is being applied to becoming teachers/non-teaching staff.

The provisions of the Maharashtra Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1982 will remain in force for the purposes of pension contributions and death contributions provided under the above decision.

Reference No. 6 of the Ministry of Finance Government dated 29th September, 2018

According to the decision, the Finance Department's reference No. 7 for the implementation of the Ali Sanuga Grants Scheme.

The date of 31st March, 2023 has been closed by Government Decree.

Sadhar Scheme 100% Subsidized by Government Decree dated 29th September, 2018

Applies to teachers/non-teaching staff in schools/workshops/nursery schools

Please note that the order was not issued by the department.

Applications received for grants should not be considered.

3. In order to obtain the death allowance, family pension balance and regular family pension for the family of deceased employees from 1st November, 2005 to the date of this Government Decision, the alternatives in Model 3 shall be submitted to the Head of the Office in conjunction with the Governing Decision. Accordingly, the family pension holder shall be entitled to adjust the Family Pension Allowance on condition that the amount of the government contribution is adjusted with the interest/allowance of the National Pension Pension System (NPS) under the Pension Scheme.

4. If an employee currently working under the defined contribution pension scheme/National Pension System Scheme (NPS) dies in the line of duty or is sick after the date of the Government's decision, Maharashtra Civil Service (pension)

Page 3 out of 6

--- Source page 4 ---

Government Decision No: EDD-2023 / Pr. No. 169/D.C. 1

Family Pension or Illness Pension Allowance as per Rules, 1982.

In the accompanying sample, the option should be presented to the Head of Office.

Government Employees under the Maharashtra Civil Service (pension) Rules, 1982

Family pension or sickness pension may be authorized.

They are required to present the family Yale as Model 1.

6. Defined contribution pension scheme system / National pension system

All employees who are covered by the scheme (NPS) shall be eligible from the date of the Government's decision for a period of one year.

It will be mandatory to pay the option in accordance with Paragraph 4 of this Law within one month.

Employees who are hired must make an appointment within 8 days as described above.

It will be necessary.

7. Pursuant to the provisions of the Governance Circular of the Department of Finance dated 24th August, 2023, 100% Subsidized Teacher and Teaching Staff in a 100% subsidized position in a Disabled Special School/Workshop/Children's Home under the Defined Contribution Pension Scheme/National Pension System Scheme (NPS) Applicable shall be entitled to receive family pension and death allowance and sickness retirement allowances to their families in case of death during their service period.

(a) After the death of an employee under the defined contribution pension scheme / National Pension System Scheme (NPS), if his/her family has chosen an alternative to receiving family pension benefits under the Maharashtra Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1982 under the Model-3 with Government Decision, then the attached Appendix 1 shall apply for family pension and death benefit authorisation.

(b) If the employee or the family of the deceased employee is eligible to receive sickness pension/family pension under the defined contribution pension scheme/National Pension System Scheme (NPS) dated 1 November, 2005 to the date of the Government's decision, then the Employee/Family pension scheme should be defined as Section 3 of the scheme in accordance with the provisions of the Maharashtra Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1982 on the basis of sickness pensions and retirement benefits.

खा

Page 4 out of 6

--- Source page 5 ---

Government Decision No: EDD-2023 / Pr. No. 169/D.C. 1

If you are eligible for sickness pension/family pension as of 1982

The employee receives benefits under the Maharashtra Civil Services (pension) Rules, 1982.

If the payment option has been selected according to sample 2, then accordingly,

sickness pension and pension contributions or family pension and death contributions

The attached appendix for authorization shall be followed as 2.

gp

~—

An employee under the defined contribution pension scheme / National Pension System Scheme (NPS) who, in the event of his death in the course of his service or illness in the case of his retirement, has submitted an option in the Family Pension/Sickness Pension Allowance template-2 as the case may be, shall be entitled to change the option of membership until retirement.

In accordance with Rule 132 of Maharashtra Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1982, the amount to be received by the Government shall be recovered from retirement contribution/death contribution.

(i) Retirement allowance for employees who have retired from government service.

Submit to the Office of the Auditor-General for the approval of the donation with the original service book by filling the accompanying form (Form-2) and submitting it to the General Accountant's Office for approval. Submitting the donations in the current manner shall be done by the Attraction and Transfer Authorities upon approval by the Office. Currently, under the provisions of the Maharashtra Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1982 Pension Benefit Cases: Department of Finance No.

Page 5 out of 6

--- Source page 6 ---

Government Decision No: EDD-2023 / Pr. No. 169/D.C. 1

Proposals for contributions should be submitted offline to the Office of the Auditor General. However, proposals for Family Pension and Death Benefit/Sickness Pension & Retirement Benefit approved under the Sadhar Govt. decision shall be submitted online in accordance with the said date of 2 July, 2015 by the Ministry of Finance.

Government Decision, informal reference number 104 / 24 / of the Ministry of Finance

Service-4, dated 27th September, 2024, as authorised

In addition to this, the Government decision is to be implemented in accordance with the provisions of Appendix 1 (a) and (b) of this Regulation.

The headings of the deposits shown in the table below are:

Licensee)-1, Office, Maharashtra letter No.

Adopted on 27 November 2024 by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the basis of the opinion of the Committee of the Regions of the European Parliament and of the Council.

They are being created by following.

The Governing Decree has been made available on the Government of Maharashtra's website, www.maharashstra.gov.in, code 202412121315448935.

By order and name of the Governor of Maharashtra.

lly signed by RAJESH BHASKAR GAIKWAD

DN: c=IN, o=GOVERNMENT OF MAHARASHTRA, ou=PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES WELFARE DEPARTMENT, 0:

5b1378a498cdff3fdd9ea5370b7 Ifae3eca97e85924d004437

58ade5f0221f9a, postalCode=400032, st=Maharasht

te

INumber=26E171EC96C63F6333217D12FB6DA1CSA800CE18A7

A6FDS9ABF19B8ED3F02A91, cn=RAJESH BHASKAR GAIKWAD.

(R. B. Gaikwad) Our secretary

q

— 2]

Principal Auditor General (Accounting and Licensing)-1, Maharashtra, Mumbai,

Principal Auditor General (Accounting and Licensing)-2, Maharashtra, Nagpur,

Principal Auditor General (Accounting Officer)-1, Maharashtra, Mumbai,

Principal Auditor General (Accounting Examination) 2, Maharashtra, Nagpur,

Commissioner, Disabled Welfare, Pune,

Director, SA and Treasurer, Mumbai,

Co-Director, State Records Maintenance Agency, Mumbai,

Audit and Accounting Officer, Andhra (East, Mumbai,

Chief Accountant, Local Funds Accounting, Kokan Bhawan, Belapur, New Mumbai,

10) Co-Director, Local Fund Accounting, Mumbai / Pune / Nagpur / Aurangabad / Amravati / Thane,

11) all regional sub-units, social welfare departments,

12) Our Secretary, Department of Finance Office Expenditure-14 / Services-4 / Budget-7, Ministry, Mumbai, 13) Residential Accounting Officer, Mumbai)

AN AD

> 7 2 >> *%& 82 82 22

wv —

14) All district treasurer officers,

15) All the Assistant Commissioners, Department of Social Welfare,

16) All district social welfare officers, district councils,

17 selection nests.

Page 6 of 6

--- Source page 7 ---

Department of Disability Welfare, Government Decision No: EDD / 2023-PROC/ 169.

Dated 12th of December, 2024.

Example 1

Family details Teacher/non-teacher employee name:

Date of birth, date of appointment.

The details of my family members on...........

A.C.'s family member's birthday.

The signature of the head of a relationship with a name.

1 | 2 3 8 4 &

2

3

8

I hereby warrant to keep this information up to date by notifying the Head of Office / Audit Officer of any additions or alterations to ie werd.

For this purpose, family means the Maharashtra Civil Services (pension) Rules, 1982

Rule 116 (16) (b) A family as defined herein.

Note: Spouse and spouse include spouse and husband who have taken legal action respectively.

--- Source page 8 ---

Department of Disability Welfare, Government Decision No: EDD / 2023-PROC/ 169.

Dated 12th December, 2024, accompanying document.

Example 2

Sickness retirement/death in service after the date of the Government decision

Permit Benefit to Teacher/Non-Teaching Staff/Family on 100% Subsidized Position

It's about getting.

By the way, that's 900% subsidy.

100% subsidized positions in schools, workshops, or kindergartens

If I am unable to serve due to illness/death, I/my family

Maharashtra Civil Services (pension) Rules, 1982 are in force.

Or

Options are available.

By the way, that's 900% subsidy.

100% subsidized positions in schools, workshops, or kindergartens

If I am unable to serve due to illness/death, I/my family

Defined Contribution Benefit in accordance with Pension Scheme / National Pension System

In addition.

Employee's signature: name: designation: office name and address: place: DCPS NO: date: given this option, the previously given option shall be deemed to be cancelled.

If it is not necessary, it must be dug up by the head of the office.

BVT is a 100% subsidized school/workshop/children's nursery teacher/non-teaching staff who have taken this option from the option a or b.

The signature and seal of the head of the office

Note: A copy of the acceptance of the option must be given to the relevant employee.

--- Source page 9 ---

Department of Disability Welfare, Government Decision No: EDD / 2023 - Procedure / 169.

Dated 12th December, 2024, accompanying document.

Example 3

Defined Contribution Pension Scheme / National Pension System Applicable for the period from 1st November, 2005 to the date of the ruling of the Government.

So I'm giving you the option that I

Defined Contributions to Benefit under the Pension System / National Pension system

In addition.

So I'm giving you the option that I

Benefits under the Maharashtra Civil Services (pension) Rules, 1982.

Allowance defined at the time of authorisation Pension Scheme / National Pension System

Benefits and defined contribution under the Pension Scheme System / National

Amount adjusted with interest / dividend of government contributions under the pension scheme

Let's do it.

Signature of sick retired employee / signature of family pensioner

--- Source page 10 ---

Department of Disability Welfare, Government Decision No.: EDD-2023 / Pr. No. 169 / D.K.-1,

Appendix with dated 12th December 2024.

Appendix - 9

defined contribution pension scheme / national pension scheme and

deaths in the period from 1 November 2005 to the date of this ruling.

Family of employee/ sick retired employee Maharashtra Civil Service (pension) rules,

Family Pension Allowance under 1982 if eligible for sickness pension and

If the option has been selected (as per sample 3) then it should be adopted according to the header option.

The methodology.

(a) defined contribution pension scheme employee

1. The amount of contributions and accrued interest under the defined contribution pension scheme.

Procedures of impersonation in the case of return:

1.1 The Head of Office and the Withdrawal and Transfer Officer shall first verify at their level that the family/legal heirs of the deceased employee as well as the sick retired employee have been reimbursed the amount of contributions and interest accrued under the contribution pension scheme as defined by the Department of Disability Welfare Decree dated April 26, 2024.

1.2 After adequate verification as specified in Paragraph.1.1 above, the family/legal heirs of the deceased employee as well as the sick retired employee are required to adjust the amount of the principal amount if previously government contributions and interest have been provided under the defined contribution pension scheme.

1.3 The Head of Office and the Withdrawal and Distribution Officer shall obtain the details of the Government contribution and interest on it from the Office of Supply Records Maintenance through the relevant Subscription and Accounting Office or the relevant District Treasury Office.

1.4 The Head of Office and the Withdrawal and Distribution Officer shall submit, in accordance with the appropriate provisions of the Maharashtra Civil Service (Pension) Rules, 1982, the Family Pension and Death Benefit of the deceased employee as well as the amount to be paid to the Government in the proposal for sickness pension and retirement pension and the amount that is eligible for adjustment in paragraph 1.2 above, together with appropriate accounting advice, to the Tate General Accounting Office for approval.

--- Source page 11 ---

1.5 Adjustment as indicated in clause 1.4.

It will also be necessary to adjust other government revenue appropriately.

It will be necessary to keep an account.

Marathi English

1) Government contribution

Main article: 0071 - Pensions and other retirement benefits 0071, Contribution and benefits

Recoveries towards Penson and

other Retirement Benefits

The amount

Deputy Director 01 Civil 01 Civil

Subscriptions and subtitles

Contributions

Subscriptions and comments

Contributions

Subscribers defined contributions to the pension

Subsidized adjustments of employer's

Residential / non-residential schools for the disabled / contribution for Teaching and

Non-teaching Employees in the workplace

Workshops / Children's homes under Defined contribution

The pension scheme for teachers and non-teaching staff is approved.

Due to the adjustment of the employer's yard and aided residential / non-

Residential special schools /

णा (0071026201) workshops for persons with

disabilities / children home for

mentally deficient persons.

(0071026201)

2) Interest on government contributions

The amount of interest deposited is 0049, Interest Receipts.

Deputy Chief of Staff 04 State/Federal District Legislature 04 Interest Receipts of State

The amount of government interest deposited by the Union Territory Governments.

with Legislature

Sub-top 800 Other deposits 800 Other Receipts

Tears 09 Other deposits 01, Other Receipts

Subgroup top (01) (55) defined contribution pension (01)

Government contribution recognised and subsidised under the scheme

Residential / non-resident disabled persons teaching and non-teaching

Residential / non-residential schools for people with disabilities

contribution pension scheme for working class/mattimanda children's homes

Teachers and teachers for approved and _ aided

Residential / non-residential on government contributions for employees

Government grants special schools / workshops for

Interest (0049525201) persons with disabilities /

children home for mentally

deficient persons.

(0049525201)

--- Source page 12 ---

1.6 Upon receipt of Death Benefit and Family Pension / Pension Benefit & Illness Pension Provision Order from the Office of the Comptroller General, the Head of Office and the Withdrawal and Distribution Officers shall submit all amounts (Government contributions and interest on them as well as other government receipts) to the Government from the amount of death / pension Benefit to the Accounting Office or the District Treasury Office by proposing adjustment under proper accounting.

1.7 The Head of Office and the Withdrawal and Depositing Officer shall notify the Office of Acquisition and Accounting Office/District Treasury Office as to the situation, in accordance with the prescribed procedure, of the adjustment of the amount of the remaining government contribution and interest from the first payment of the balance of the family pension.

The Head of Office and the Withdrawal and Transfer Officer shall, in accordance with the prescribed procedure, notify the Office of Procurement and Accounting Office/District Treasury Office as to the situation and adjustment of the remaining amount from the first payment of the outstanding amount of the sickness pension.

The Surrender and Accounting Office/District Treasury Office should initiate the distribution of the regular monthly Family/Sickness Pension to the family/sickness pensioner by adjusting the amount of the Kelli adjustment proposed by the Head of the Office from the first payment of the remaining family/sickness pension.

If the amount of the Host Adjustment (Government Contribution and Interest on it) proposed by the Head of Office is greater than the first payment of the Family/Sickness Pension Balance, the remaining amount shall be recovered step by step from the provision of the next family/sickness pension by adjusting the full amount of family/ sickness pension Balance First Payment Balance.

It will be the responsibility of the Head of Office and the Withdrawal and Distribution Officer concerned to fully adjust the total amount of government contributions and interest on them.

--- Source page 13 ---

2. Reimbursement of contribution and interest amount under defined contribution pension scheme.

The methodology of imitating in non-compliance is as follows:-

2.1 If the deceased employee's family / legal heirs / sick retired employee has not yet been reimbursed contributions and interest under the defined contribution pension scheme and in the present situation: the family of deceased worker / sick retiree has chosen the option of receiving family / sickness pension benefits in accordance with the model-3 of this Government Decision as per Maharashtra Civil Service (Pension) Rules, 1982, first of all, by making an objective verification that the family/legal heirs of the dead employee or sick retirement worker concerned have accumulated only a fraction of the allowance defined by the employee from his/her personal account.

For this purpose, the Head of the Office and the Tracking and Delivery Officer, read 10th, 26th.

Subsidy and Accounting Office / District Treasury Office as provided for in April, 2024

The perfect proposal should be made.

2.2 Subsidy and Accounting Office / District Treasury Office in accordance with clause 2.1 above.

Defined contribution by examining the proposal submitted to them in accordance with the provision.

Statement of sums collected under the Pension Payment Scheme (Department of Disability Welfare, Government Decision)

Sample-D with date 26th April, 2024 should be issued.

2.3 On the basis of the aforementioned statement-d model received from the Surrender and Accounting Office/District Treasury Office, the Head of Office and the Removal and Distribution Officer shall submit to the Sub-State Archives Maintenance Office a proposal for the family/legal heir of the deceased employee or the repayment of the accrued contributions and interest amount of the relevant sick retired employee, together with the validity of the option given by the employee (sample-3 together with this Governing Decision).

2.4 Only after receipt of a proposal to the Office of Records Maintenance

Employee credits and accrued interest Notes Total amount of refund order Subscription records

Sampling by the Office of Maintenance Prosecutor (Department of Disability Welfare, Government Decree dated 26th April,

Model-e to be issued by 2024.

2.5 Subscription and Accounting Office/District based on sample etc.

Payment must be submitted to the Treasurer's Office in the form 45-A.

The interest on it should be paid to the family / heirs / sickness pensioner of the deceased employee.

2.6 All returns for the entire financial year by the Office of Supply Records Maintenance

Government contribution in cases (sample etc) under main heading 8342 5562 and above

The total amount of accrued interest Com Main Accounts 2049 2872

--- Source page 14 ---

Addition of the headline gaps shown in the table below in paragraph (a) 1.5 of Appendix-1

The Nil Bill must be submitted by the end of the financial year.

2.7 The Head of Office and the Withdrawal and Distribution Officer shall submit for approval to the Office of the Governments a proposal for the family pension and death allowance for the heirs of the deceased family under the appropriate provisions of the Maharashtra Civil Services (Pension Benefit) Rules, 1982, as well as other amounts to the Government in the proposal for sickness pension and retirement pension of sickness retired employee.

2.8 Upon receipt of death benefit and family pension/pension allowance and sickness pension provision order from the Office of the Comptroller General, the Head of Office and withdrawal and transfer officers shall submit to the Payment Subscription and Accounting Office or the District Treasury Office a proposal to adjust the amount to the Government from the amount of the death benefit/retirement contribution under appropriate accounting.

2.9 If the amount of the adjustment indicated in paragraph 2.8 above exceeds the sum of the death contribution/pension allowance, the amount that can be adjusted from the death grant/retirement contribution, adjust the amount and the remaining amount from the first payment of the surplus of the family pension/sickness pension shall be notified by the Head of Office and the withdrawal and distribution officer to the Office of Acquisition and Accounting/District Treasury Office in accordance with the prescribed procedure.

The Office of Remittances and Accounts/District Treasury Office should initiate the distribution of regular family/disease pension to the Family/Disease Pension Holder by adjusting the amount of the first payment of the remaining amount of family pension/sickness pension proposed by the Head of Office.

If the amount of the adjustment proposed by the Head of Office is greater than the remaining amount of family/patient pension, the balance shall be recovered step by step from the provision of the next family/paediatric pension by adjusting the total amount of surviving amount of household/patience pension, in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the Ministry of Finance, Government Circular No.

It will be the responsibility of the Head of Office and the withdrawal and distribution officer concerned to fully adjust the total amount of incoming government revenue.

--- Source page 15 ---

(b) Employees who are covered by the National Pension System:

1) Provision of accumulated sums deposited in PRAN accounts under the National Pension System

In the following cases, the methodology of imitation:

1.1 Family of deceased employee / legal heir / sick retired employee

The Head of Office and the Withdrawal and Distribution Officer shall first verify at their level that the accumulated funds deposited in the PRAN account of the Employee under the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (Exits and Withdrawals Under the National Pension System) Regulations 2015 and the periodic amendments thereto have been provided through the Exit Withdrawal Process.

1.2 In cases where the procedure for purchasing the Annuity Plan from the accumulated amount in the PRAN account has not been completed by the deceased employee's family/legal heirs or sick retired employees and the regular provision of annuity to the relatives has also begun, the Pension Funds Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) Circular number PFRDA/2029/30/SUP/ASP/&, dated 22 July, 2021 shall be collected by the Head of the Office of Health and Family Welfare (Head of the Department of Health, Family and Pensions) to consider the guidance of the Sender regarding the withdrawal of the annuity.

1.3 After proper verification in accordance with clause 1.1 above and taking into account the facts in clause No. 1.2 above, the family/legal heirs of the deceased employee as well as the sick retired employee shall first adjust the government contribution of the total accumulated sum and the amount of the accrued benefit in the PRAN account of the employee previously provided under the National Pension Pension System.

1.4 The details of the Government contribution and amount of accumulated dividends only of the total amount deposited in the PRAN account of the deceased employee shall be provided by the Head of the Office and the Withdrawal and Distribution Officer through the Central Atic Maintenance Agency (CRA-Protean) through the Subscription and Accounting Office/District Treasury Office.

--- Source page 16 ---

The separate calculation should be carried out by the Central Archives Maintenance Agency (CRA-Protean).

1.5 Head of Office and Extraction and Delivery Officer of Maharashtra Civil Services (pension)

Family of deceased employee to be presented under the appropriate provisions of the Rules, 1982

Pension and sickness pension of employee sickness and retirement pension

Other amounts to be received by the Government in the proposal as well as any of the amounts mentioned in paragraph 1.3 above.

The adjustment of the amount is right, the family must include the details of the unknown amount with proper accounting advice.

Proposals for pensions and death certificates should be submitted to the Office of the Auditor General for approval.

1.6 Appendix 1 to the Adjustment Appropriate Amount Governance Decision as indicated in paragraph 1.3 above.

It will be necessary to adjust the painful underlying underlying stress under subparagraph (a) 1.5.

Adjustment of other government receipts will also have to be done under proper accounting.

1.7 Upon receipt of Death Benefit and Family Pension / Pension Benefit & Illness Pension Provision Order from the Office of the Comptroller General, the Head of Office and withdrawal and distribution officers shall submit all amounts (government contributions and benefits and other governmental receipts) due to the Government from the amount of death Benefit / pension Benefit to the Public Accounts Office or the District Treasury Office by proposing appropriate adjustment under the Schedule.

1.8 If the amount of the adjustment indicated in paragraph 1.6 is greater than the sum of the death benefit/pension benefit, the amount that can be adjusted from the amount in the shortfall benefit/retirement benefit shall be recovered first from the other government revenue. Then the head of the Office and the withdrawal officer shall, as appropriate, report to the Office of the Comptroller and Auditor, the balance of the government contribution and the interest on it, on the first payment of the family pension / sickness pension balance in accordance with the provisions of the Accounting Office.

The Adjustment amount proposed by the Head of the Office by the Surcharge and Accounting Office/District Treasury Office should be adjusted to the amount of the first payment of the remaining Family Pension/Sickness Pension, and the regular monthly Family/Hospital Pension allowance should be distributed among the Family/Health Pension Holders.

If the amount of the adjustment proposed by the Head of Office (Government contribution and interest on it) is greater than the sum of the first payment of the family / sickness pension balance, the remaining amount shall be recovered step by step from the provision of the next family pension by adjusting the full amount of first payment.

--- Source page 17 ---

Ministry of Finance, Government Circular Number: Narrow - 1099 / Pr. No. 99 / KOSHA-4, dated 12

Follow the procedures laid down after August, 1999.

It will be the responsibility of the Head of Office and the withdrawal and distribution officer concerned to fully adjust the total amount of government contributions and benefits.

2) Without providing accumulated sums deposited in PRAN accounts under the National Pension System

In the following cases, the methodology of imitation:

2.1 If the family of deceased employee/legal heir/sick retired employee has not been provided with the accumulated sum deposited by the Exits and Withdrawal Process under the National Pension System, and the family/sick retired worker has currently chosen the option to pay the family / sick retirement pension as per the Maharashtra Civil Service (pension) Rules, 1982 in accordance with the Model 3, the total accumulation of the PRAN account of the deceased worker's family / legal heir or sick retired employees in the case concerned shall be deducted from the accounts of the total amount deposited and the amount of the personal pension deposited at the time of his/her death.

For this purpose, the Head of Office/withdrawal and distribution officer shall submit a proposal to the Finance Department, Government Circular Number: ANNIO-2017/P.R. 26/Service-4, dated 28th July, 2017 and to the Department of Finance, Government Clearance No.: ANNYO-2017/PR.N. 26 /Service-4 dated 18th November, 2021 to recover the sums accumulated in the PRAN account of the concerned employee through the Error Rectification Module as provided by the provisions of the Annual Report.

2.2 On the basis of the proposal received from the Withdrawal and Delivery Officer, the Surrender and Accounting Office/District Treasury Office shall recover the total accumulated sum deposited in the PRAN account of the deceased/sick retired employee on the System of the Central Archives Maintenance Authority (CRN-Protean).

2.3 The Office of Remittances and Accounts/District Treasury Offices shall immediately deposit the Government contribution and interest thereon into the Government account under the accounting provided for in Paragraph (a) 1.5 of Appendix-1. The amount of the employee's eggs and the accumulated dividends on them shall be classified into the account of the relevant Remittance and Distribution Officer.

2.4 Head of Office and Removal and Delivery Officer of Maharashtra Civil Services (pension)

Family of deceased employee to be presented in accordance with the appropriate provisions of the Rules, 1982

--- Source page 18 ---

Proposals for family pensions and death benefits and sickness pensions and retirement pensions should be submitted to the Office of the Governor for approval only by incorporating the adjustment of government income in the proposal for pension and death benefit with proper accounting.

2.5 Upon receipt of Death Grant and Family Pension/Retirement Grant and Sickness Pension Grant Orders from the Office of the Auditor General, the Head of Office and withdrawal and distribution officers shall submit all amounts due to the Government from the amount of death/retirement Grant to the Payment Grant and Accounting Office or the District Treasury Office by proposing an adjustment under the appropriate accounting framework.

2.6 If the amount of the adjustment indicated in the aforementioned paragraphs is greater than the sum of the death/retirement contribution, the amount that can be adjusted from the death / retirement contribution, and the amount remaining from the first payment of the sickness pension balance, the Head of Office and the Withdrawal and Transfer Officer shall notify the Office of Procurement and Accounts/District Treasury of the situation in accordance with the prescribed procedure.

The amount of the adjustment proposed by the Head of the Office by the Surrender and Accounting Office/District Treasury Office should be adjusted from the amount of first payment of the remaining Family/Sickness Pension only to start the distribution of regular monthly Family Pension to the family pension holder.

In the case of the sickness pension holder, if the amount of the adjustment proposed by the Head of Office is greater than the remaining amount of sickness pensions, the balance shall be recovered in stages from the provision of further sickness benefits, by adjusting the full amount of surviving amount, in accordance with the provisions laid down by the Ministry of Finance, Government Circular, No.: Narrow-1099 / Pr. No. 99/Kosha-4, dated 12 August, 1999.

The Head of Office as well as the Withdrawal and Distribution Officers will be fully responsible for adjusting the revenue coming to the Government.

KKKKKKKKEKERKEKKRKERRKEKK

--- Source page 19 ---

Department of Disability Welfare, Government Decision No.: SST-2023 / Pr. No. 169 / D.K.-1,

Appendix with dated 12th December 2024.

Appendix - 2

If, under the defined contribution pension scheme / National Pension Scheme, sick retired employee or family members of deceased employee in service after the date of this Government decision, are eligible to receive sickness pension / family pension as per Maharashtra Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1982 and the senior employee/ deceased worker's family has chosen the option to provide benefits in accordance with the model-2 of the Maharasha Civil Service (pension) Regulations, 1982, then the statute of limitation shall apply to the provision of invalidity pension and retirement pension or family pension allowance in respect of death.

1. Government employee under defined contribution pension scheme

In case of sickness retirement or death after the date, Head of Office / Withdrawal and Delivery

Ministry of Finance, Government Circular No: ANIO-2017 / Pr. No. 26 / Service-4, dated 28

Twins, 2017 and Department of Finance, Government Clearance No: ANIO-2017 / Pr. No. 26 / Service-4, dated

Error Rectification Module RX Employee's PRAN accounts accumulated as of November 18, 2021

Subsidy and Accounting Office/District for repayment of employee contributions and benefits

A complete proposal should be submitted to the Treasury.

2. The Surrender and Accounting Office/District Treasury Office shall recover the amount of contributions deposited in the PRAN account of sick retired employee/deceased employee through the Error Rectification Module on the Central Records Maintenance Agency (CRA-Protean) system on the basis of the proposal received from the withdrawal and distribution officer.

3. The Office of Remittances and Accounts/District Treasury Offices shall deposit the Government's eggs and interest on them in Government accounts under subparagraph (a) (1) of Appendix-1 item No. 1.5 below. The amount of employee contributions and benefits on them shall be classified in the account of the relevant Remittance and Distribution Officer.

4. Proposals for sickness pension and pension contributions as well as family pension and death contributions should be sent to the Office of the Auditor General in accordance with the provisions of the Maharashtra Civil Service (Pension) Rules, 1982.

KKKKKEKKEKEKKERKEEK

--- Source page 20 ---

Department of Disability Welfare, Government Decision No.: EDD-2023 / Pr. No. 169 / D.K.-1,

Dated 11th December, 2024, attached note.

FORM-1 Form for Assessing Gratuity [To be sent four months before the date of retirement to the PAO]

PART-!I (To be filled by Head of Office)

1. Name of the retiring Government servant

2. Father's name (and also husband's name

in the case of female Government servant)

3. Mother's name

4, Date of Birth

पु. Permanent residential address showing village, town, district and State PAN No.

7. Post held at the time of retirement:

(a) Name of the Office

(b) Post held

(c) Level of pay in the pay matrix

d) Basic pa

(e) Whether declared substantive in any post under the State Government

| 8. __ | Date of beginning of service

(9. | Date of ending of service

10. Cause of ending of service (please tick

one)

(a) Superannuation

(b) On being declared surplus

(c) Voluntary / premature retirement at the initiative of the Government servant

(d) Premature retirement at the initiative of the Government

(e) Permanent absorption in public sector undertaking/Autonomous Body

(f) Invalidment on medical ground

(g) Due to abolition of post

(h) Compulsory retirement (i) Removal from service

--- Source page 21 ---

10A_ | Inthe case of compulsory retirement, the orders of the competent authority whether gratuity may be allowed at full rates or at reduced rates and in case of reduced rates, the percentage at which it is to be allowed 10B. | Incase of removal from service whether orders of competent authority have been obtained for grant of gratuity and if so, at what rate 11. Service in Autonomous body / State Government, if any:- (a) Details of Service: Name of Organisation Post held Period of service From ........ TO _............ (b) Whether the above service is to be counted for gratuity in the Government (c) Whether the Autonomous Organisation has discharged its gratuity liability to the State Government 12. Whether any department or judicial proceedings are pending against the retiring employee. (If yes, gratuity will be withheld till the conclusion 00 departmental or judicial proceedings and issue of final orders.) 13. Details of Service (a) Period of service From ........ TO .........

Total duration of service

(b) Details of omissions, imperfection or deficiencies in the Service Book which have been ignored

(c) Period not counting as qualifying service

(i) Extraordinary leave not counting as qualifying service

(ii) Periods of suspension not treated as qualifying service

(iii) Interruptions in service

--- Source page 22 ---

(iv) Periods of foreign service with United Nation Bodies for which no contribution for gratuity was received

(v) Any other period not treated as qualifying service (give details)

(d) Additions to qualifying service:

(i) Benefit of service in an Autonomous Body

(e) Net qualifying service (a-b-c+d)

(f) Qualifying service expressed in terms of completed six monthly periods (Period of three months and above is to be treated as completed six monthly period)

14.

Last pay

Note: If the officer was on foreign service immediately preceding retirement, the notional last pay which he would have drawn under Government but for being on foreign service may he mentioned.

15.

Amount of retirement gratuity/death gratuity

16.

Details of gratuity on finalisation of Department/.Judicial proceedings

(a) Percentage of gratuity to he withheld

(b) Amount of gratuity after deduction of amount withheld

17.

Details of Government dues recoverable out of gratuity

(a) Licence accommodation fee (R) for Government

(b) Dues

(c) Amount indicated by Executive Engineer to be withheld

Post-retirement address of the retiree

e-mail ID, if any

Mobile number, if any

--- Source page 23 ---

CHECKLIST FOR HEAD OF OFFICE FOR TIMELY PROCESSING OF

RETIREMENT DUES

Whether retiring employee is an allottee of Government accommodation.

The date on which action initiated to obtain the 'No demand certificate from the Executive Engineer

Date of receipt of 'No Demand Certificate’ from Executive Engineer Date on which intimation regarding any recovery/ withholding of amount from gratuity received from Executive Engineer

If retiring employee is not an allottee of Government accommodation, date on which 'No Demand Certificate issued by the office.

Date on which action initiated to assess the service and emoluments qualifying for gratuity

Date on which action initiated to assess the Government dues other than the dues relating to allotment of Government accommodation

Date on which the retiring Government servant was furnished with a certificate regarding the length of qualifying service and the emoluments proposed to be_ reckoned for retirement gratuity.

Whether any objection received from the employee on the above certificate

10.

Whether nominations made for

Death gratuity/retirement gratuity

11.

Whether Details of family attached

12.

Whether the orders of the competent authority regarding grant of gratuity in the cases of compulsory retirement / removal placed on record

--- Source page 24 ---

13. Whether order for withholding gratuity on finalisation of departmental / judicial proceedings attached, if applicable on finalisation of proceedings.

14. Whether statement indicating the reasons for delay (in case the papers for payment of gratuity are not forwarded before four months of the retirement of Government servant) attached

15. Whether brief statement leading to reinstatement of the Government servant attached (In case the Government’ servant has _ been reinstated after having been suspended, compulsorily retired from service.)

PART-II

[Account Enfancement (by Accounts Officer) ]

Date of receipt of papers for payment of gratuity by the Accounts Officer from Head of Officer

Entitlements admitted-

A. Length of qualifying service

B. Retirement / Death Gratuity

(i) Total amount of gratuity

(ii) Percentage of gratuity to be withheld

(iii) Amount of gratuity after deduction of amount withheld

(iv) Amount to be adjusted towards arrears of licence fee for Government accommodation and licence fee for retention of Government accommodation beyond retirement

(v) Amount intimated by Executive Engineer for being withheld on account of unassessed licence fee

--- Source page 25 ---

(vi) Amount to be adjusted towards Government dues other than those pertaining to Government accommodation

(vii) Net amount to be released immediatel

C. Head of account to which the amount of retirement / death gratuity to be debited

D. Whether any order affecting gratuity issued | Yes

If so, details thereof

Signature of Accounts Officer

GRATUITY CALCULATION SHEET

1. Name

2. Designation

3. Date of Birth

4. Level of pay in the pay matrix

5. Basic pay

| 6. | Date of entry in the Government service

7. Date of retirement

a Length of qualifying service reckoned

for gratuity

| 9. | Last pay for gratuity

10. | Retirement gratuity admissible:

calculation to be shown as follows: Last

pay/4 x Qualifying service (In

completed six monthly periods, not

exceeding 66)

Signature of the Head of Office

Countersigned by PAO

Copy to Shri/Smt/ KUM.

Retired / Retiring Govt. servant.

--- Source page 26 ---

FORM 2

Letter to the Accounts Officer forwarding the papers for payment of

gratuity of a Government Servant

No

Tree PPe Pierre)

Name and address of Office

Date:

To

The Accountant General

PPP PPP CeCe Cer eer rer reer

PPP PPP CeCe Cer eer rer reer

Subject: Authorisation of gratuity in respect of

Shri/Smt./KUM. .................... न्न

Sir/Madam.

I am directed to forward herewith the papers for payment of gratuity

in respect of Shri / Smt./Kum.

PPP PPP PCC 299 COE PCC e ree errr erred)

of this

Department / Office

कि 9 289

for further necessary action.

2

The details of Government dues which will remain outstanding on the

date of death / retirement of the Government servant and which need to be

recovered/withheld are indicated in item No. 12 of Form 1.

3

The receipt of this letter may be acknowledged.

4

The retirement / death gratuity will be drawn and disbursed by this

Ministry / Department/ Office on receipt of authority from you.

Enclosures:

1. Form 1 Completed, along with enclosures and checklists.

2. Service book (date of death / retirement to be indicated in the service

book).

Yours faithfully,

(Head of Office)

Notes:

When initials or name of the Government servant are or is incorrectly given

in the various records consulted, this fact should be mentioned in the letter.