--- Source page 1 ---

To transfer the management of the Satya Sai Education Institution, Dhanora, Ta.Nilanga, J.Latur administered by K.Razabai Dhanorkar Residential Disabled Vidyalaya, Dhanora, Ta.Nilanga, J.Latur to the Institute of Rahemania Talimi Society, Nilanga, J.Latur.

Government of Maharashtra Department of Disability Welfare

Governance Decree No. EDD-2024/Prc.45/D.K.1

Ministry, Mumbai - 400 032

Date: July 31, 2024.

Read:- 1) Governance Decree Department of Social Justice and Special Assistance No. EDD-2017/

Procedure 056/A.K.1, dated 16th September, 2017.

Governance Decree Department of Social Justice and Special Assistance No EDD-2017/

Procedure 06/A.K.1, 15th February, 2019

Maharashtra Scholastic Institutions (Management Transfer) Act, 1971.

ट्ट

AN ~—"

The preamble is as follows:-

Shri Rajabai Dhanorkar Residential Disabled Vidyalaya, Dhanora, T.Nilanga, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhan, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhan, Dhanora, Dhanora, Dhan, Dhanora, Dhan, Dhanora, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhanora, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, and Dhan, Dhan, Dhan, D

Government decision:-

The Governing Decision approves the transfer of management of the Satya Sai Education Institution, Dhanora, Ta.Nilanga, D.Latoor run by K.Rajbai Dhanorkar Residential Disabled Vidyalaya, Dhanora, Ta.Nilanga, Some to the Institute of Rahmaniya Talimi Society, Nilanga, D.Latoor.

2. The existing scheme for accreditation and subsidy of Diwali Vishwas Schools to the Head Institution.

The rules and regulations that come into force from time to time will remain binding.

--- Source page 2 ---

Governance Decree No: EDD-2024/P.R.45/D.K.1

3. Complete all procedures regarding transfer of management of Sadar Special School within three months and submit a report to the Government by the Commissioner, Disability Welfare, Pune.

4. Within 30 days after the passing of the Management Transfer Order,

Competent Authorities and Commissioners under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016

Registration Certificate from Pune will be mandatory.

5. All costs of transfer of management of the Senior Special School shall be borne by the relevant institution.

There will be no reimbursement of overhead expenses.

The institution that transfers management of the subject school is the accreditation of the native school.

All recruited and employed personnel will be accommodated to their original positions after the proposed transfer.

The institution that transfers the management of the subject-specific school is the Head School.

It will run in place.

8. Good Governance Decisions issued in accordance with the approval given by the Chief Minister

It's being done.

The Governing Order has been made available on the Government of Maharashtra's website, www.maharashtra.gov.in, computer code 202408011226015335.

By order and on behalf of the Governor of Maharashtra,

VISHNUDAS PUNDLIKRAO GHODKE

Deputy Secretary, Government of Maharashtra

The Prime Minister, His Private Secretary, Ministry, Mumbai 400 032.

Secretary (Divang Kalyan), his personal assistant, Ministry, Mumbai 400 032.

Commissioner, Disability Welfare, Maharashtra State, Pune.

He is also a member of the Board of Directors of the Regional Advisory Council, Social Welfare APT, SIR.

) Chief Executive Officer, District Council-Latur.

)

)

)

District Social Welfare Officer, District Council-Latoor. General Accountant, Maharashtra-2 (Accounting Exam/ Accounting and Licensing), Nagpur. District Treasurer, Latoor.

Chairman/Secretary, Institute of Satya Sai Education, Dhanora, Ta.Nilanga, J.Latur. qo) Chairman/Secretary, Talimi Society, Nilanga, J.Latur. 11) Election (Diyang Kalan -1)

Page 2 of 2