--- Source page 1 ---

Government policy on grants for permanent non-subsidized/non-subsidized special schools, affiliated hostels, workshops (training centres) and orphanages for handicapped children in the state.

Maharashtra government

Department of Disability Welfare

Governance Decree No: EDD-2022/ Proc.65/D.K.1

39/ 32/ 35 A Wing, Mittal Tower, Barrister Rajni Patel Road,

Nariman Point, Mumbai-400021.

Date: July 16, 2024

2} | -O J

Department of Social Justice, Cultural Affairs, Sports and Fears Assistance, Government Decision No.

2001/PROC.502/Reform-2, dated 19 July 2003,

2. Department of Social Justice, Cultural Affairs, Sports and Humanitarian Assistance, Government Decision No.: EDD-

2001/CPC 502/Reform-2, Dec. 4, 2003,

3. Department of Social Justice, Cultural Affairs, Sports and Humanitarian Assistance, Government Decision No.: EDD-

2001 /P.R. No.490/ Amendment-2, dated 11 August 2004,

4. Department of Social Justice, Cultural Affairs, Sports and Special Assistance, Government Decision No.: EDD-

2003 / Pr. No.340/ Part-3 / Amendment-2, dated 18th August, 2004.

5. Department of Social Justice and Special Assistance, Government Decision No.: EDD-2012 / Pr. No. 67/A

A. 1, dated 08 April, 2015.

6. Right of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.

Maharashtra Disabled Schools, Training Centres and Mattimand Children's Housing Code, 2018.

8. Department of Social Justice and Special Assistance, Government Decision No.: Disability -2093 / Pr. No. 201

Maharashtra State Disabled as of A.K.-2, dated February 20, 2019

Policy, 2018

9. Department of Social Justice and Special Assistance, Government circular number: EDD-2017 / Pr. No. 491/

A.K. 1, dated 12th May, 2021,

10. Department of Finance, Governance Decisions, number: Narrow-2022 / No. 27/ Budget, dated 8th June, 2022,

11. Letter number from Commissioner, Disabled Welfare, Pune: Dika / Pr. All / Disabled School Policy / Information

It is scheduled to be held on March 23, 2023.

The preamble is:

The state's handicapped boarding schools, affiliated boarding houses, workshops (training centres and orphanages) are run on a permanent non-subsidy/non-subsidy basis. Salary and non-salary grants are granted to such activities on the basis of availability of funds from the Government.

--- Source page 2 ---

Governance Decree No: EDD-2022/ Proc.65/D.K.1

Modified Maharashtra Disabled Schools, Training Centres and Mattimand Children's Housing Code, 2018

The Modified Governance Decree, dated July 18, 2018 and the Modified Governance Decree, dated February 5, 2019, have been implemented.

Maharashtra Government has developed Maharashtra State Disability Policy, 2018 for the welfare of persons with disabilities in the State in accordance with the provisions of Article 4 of the Maharashtra State Disability Policy, which has been implemented by Government Decree dated 20th February 2019 with the objective of providing all possible assistance based on availability of funds for education, training, employment, self-employment and development of persons with disabilities.

3. Read No. 1 and No. 2 Disadvantaged Schools and Workshops which were in operation before 30 October 2002 and are currently in operation under the provisions of the Individuals with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995 (Authorized) and the Individuals with Disabilities Rights Act, 2016 (Authorized) Act, 2016 (Authorized) have been issued registration certificates under the provisions of the provisions of the Disabled Persons Rights Act, 2016 (Authorized) and such special schools/workshops have completed two years of registration certificates under which they will be considered eligible for a government scholarship grant.

8. Similarly, Chapter 2 (5) of the School Code dated 18 July 2018 provides for permanent non-subsidized/non-subsidized schools/workshops for handicapped persons to be placed on the subsidy basis, including the need for registration certificate to be approved on the subsidy basis, the economic, social, cultural, geographical and diplomatic policy of the Government, availability of funds, planning and availability, elimination of geographical imbalances, preference to schools/workshops for children with disabilities, school inspection privileges.

Similarly, the provisions of the School Code of 2018 are insufficient for granting disability activities on a subsidy basis. The High Court, Bench and Aurangabad have filed a petition.10180/2012 (Rural Workers' Institutions v. Maharashtra Government) against the High Court. The Court's order of 2 September, 2013 has been given to the High Court of Maharashtra to set up a special subsidy scheme against the non-performing and non-performing schools in Maharashtra, as well as to the High Court of Maharashtra to set up a special subsidy scheme against the non-performing and non-performing schools.

6. In view of the orders of the High Court, periodic directives issued by the Department of Finance,

Permanent non-subsidized/non-subsidized special schools/workshops/ orphanages approved

The government was in the process of formulating a government policy on government grants.

Subsequent proposals were made at the meeting of the Cabinet on 5th July, 2024.

2 out of 14

--- Source page 3 ---

Governance Decree No: EDD-2022/ Proc.65/D.K.1

Following the decision taken by the Cabinet of Ministers in this regard, the following policies are being laid down to bring permanent non-subsidized/non-subsidized initiatives of persons with disabilities to the subsidy principle.

Decisions of the Government:-

The Department of Social Justice, Cultural Affairs, Sports and Exercise Assistance, Government Decree dated 19 July, 2003, dated 4 December, 2003 and dated 11 August, 2004, as well as other Government Decrees concerning the granting of Special Schools/Workshops are being authorised.

2. To establish the evaluation criteria for permanently non-granted and non-granted schools of handicapped persons, affiliated hostels, workshops and orphanages, and to apply the following policy regarding the approval of government grants, affiliated hostels, workshops (training centres and orphanages for orphaned persons (hereinafter referred to as the activities of the handicapped persons) and the granting of government certificates to enterprises receiving valid grants and non-grants on the basis of permanent grants.

From now on, new registration certificates for disabled enterprises will be issued on the basis of self-financing, and newly registered self-financing enterprises will no longer be eligible for any government grants in the future.

The activities of persons with disabilities who have been granted a registration certificate on a permanent basis without subsidy shall be considered as non-subsidized activities after the end of the period of validity. In addition, activities of persons with disabilities who have been granted a registration certificate on a non-subsidy basis shall be considered for approval on a subsidy basis after a total of 15 years after the end of the period of validity.

(ii) State-owned enterprises with disabilities receiving subsidy from the Central Government or Local Self-Government Institutions shall not be entitled to claim State Government subsidy.

(iv) If the activities of persons with disabilities on the relevant permanent non-subsidy/non-subsidy basis are granted minority status, they will be obliged to comply with all the conditions/conditions/rules established from time to time by the Department of Welfare with respect to the service aspects of the employees of the activities of persons with disabilities after they are eligible for subsidy from the Government.

4. If an institution has requested a new registration certificate for more than one handicapped activity from the competent authority in accordance with the prescribed procedure, the activities of handicapped persons working in a designated place at the time of issuance of the new registration certificate for such handicapped activity, the regional balance, geographical situation, number of students/beneficiaries with disabilities there, number of accesses available, surplus declared by the Government, allocated to the handicapped persons by the relevant institution.

3 out of 14

--- Source page 4 ---

Governance Decree No: EDD-2022/ Proc.65/D.K.1

vi.

vii.

viii.

The Government-approved Comprehensive Framework on Facilities, Basic Infrastructure Required by prevailing Standards, Schools and Affiliated Hostels for Disabled Persons, Workshops (Training Centres and Affiliated Hostels and Orphanages for Orphans, etc.) will require the Competent Authority to provide new registration certificates as Self Financed Activities to the relevant Special School/Workshop on the basis of Self Financing.

In the event that the activities of persons with disabilities receiving minority status approved on a permanent non-grant/non-grant basis are being subsidized through the Department of Minority Development, the Head Schools will not be entitled to request subsidy from the Department of Disability Welfare.

Students/ Beneficiaries as well as all employees will not receive any salary/salary/nutrition etc. Subsidy to the Disabled Resident/Non-Resident Activities of the relevant institution except for the availability of Aadhaar Appendix-Online Biometric Presence. The availability recorded on the Aadhaar Appendix-Online Biometric Presence System will be checked monthly by the competent authority and the Government and the salary/salary/nutrition subsidy will be distributed to the same Activities.

Governments shall have the power to approve the activities of persons with disabilities who have obtained valid accreditation/registration certificate on non-grant basis on grant basis.

In order to qualify for the grant, the following are required for the organisation that runs the activities of persons with disabilities:

1) Valid Registration Certificate 2) Subsidy on the basis of disability related activities

Self-determination under the government decision to bring in THAT criteria and criteria

Compliance with these requirements and Application 3) Government Recognition of Disabled Activities

Meeting the minimum eligibility criteria established from time to time 4) Personnel in Disability Activities

Adherence to Government procedures and reservation policy of appointment in relation to the appointment.

Applications based on the number of students and the next three months based on the simple system

And that the students are determined according to the standardised and verified data of the disability.

(i) the audit report for the last 3 years; (ii) the performance of the organisation;

8) List of members and Approval of Charity Commissioners.

Acknowledges that Government approval will be required to change/transform the classification of Combined Special Schools and Workshops, in particular regarding the specific location of Special Schools/Workshops, regional balance, geographical situation, availability of admissions, Sen declared by the Government, facilities provided by the relevant institution for the disabled, basic facilities required by prevailing criteria, Government-approved framework for Disabled Poisoned Schools and Associated Residences, Workplaces (Training Centres) and Associated Residences and Orphanages, etc.

4 out of 14

--- Source page 5 ---

Governance Decree No: EDD-2022/ Proc.65/D.K.1

xi.

xii.

xiii

.

xiv.

3.

Assessment Criteria and Score Division: This is a system of score division based on 100 points in the assessment.

As per the Decree, it contains a total of 13 issues related to the initiative.

Required Points for Grant Eligibility:- Eventually, Events with Disabilities receiving at least 75 out of a total of 100 points according to the evaluation criteria will be declared eligible for grant. However, for this, it will be mandatory for Events with Disabilities receiving at least 18 out of the 25 points prescribed for quality assurance of the Events, except in sections 1 to 4, Events with Disabilities receiving at least 75 out of 100 points will not be eligible for Grant Eligibility.

The date of the original registration certificate issued to the relevant disabled enterprises for grant determination will be the important criterion as the date of the registration certificate of the relevant enterprise as the date of the seniority of the relevant enterprise. In special cases where the date of the registration certificate of the disabled enterprises is the same, the serial number of the relevant registration certificate will be taken into account for seniority.

Transfer/Migration of Disabled Activities Closed:- Transfer and relocation of the management of the closed permanent non-subsidized/non-subsidized disabled activities to another competent institution or transfer of management of such running special school/workshop to another competent institution or transfer of the ongoing disabled activities from one location to another competent institution, according to the process governance decision, this will be carried out from 15th February, 2019 onwards or according to changes in the governance policy from time to time.

If an enterprise with disabilities holds seniority for registration certificate under presentation policy and the relevant disability enterprise's registration certificate has been revoked by the competent authority two or more times in the previous consecutive five-year period and renewed by an appeal order from the Government, the five points in the assessment of enterprises with disabilities will be reduced and the date of the relevant registration certificate will be considered for seniority after the new registration certificate is received.

Grant recognition of non-granted incremental number of students/beneficiaries in subsidized disability initiatives should also be implemented in accordance with the criteria of the Subsidy Policy.

Adoption of non-residential initiatives for persons with disabilities into residential initiatives should also be done in accordance with the criteria of the SDAR Policy.

Approaches for approval of non-granted enterprises on a grant basis:

Operating Parents of Disability Initiatives Wishing for Grant-based Accreditation

The Institute shall conduct a self-assessment on the basis of the criteria set out in the Government Decree, together with detailed information and evidence documents, through AYUKTA, DIVYANG KALYAN, PUNE, as follows:

5 out of 14

--- Source page 6 ---

Governance Decree No: EDD-2022/ Proc.65/D.K.1

District Assessment conducted under the chairmanship of Officers, relevant District Councils.

The Committee will be required to submit proposals by 31st October of the relevant financial year.

Unsubsidized disabled enterprises will be required to submit a report on the online biometric attendance of the students and staff of the previous three months based on their support when applying for grants.

1. Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the relevant District Council (Related District)

(Department of Regional Affairs, Social Welfare - Mumbai Suburbs and Cities or other relevant officials directed by the Department of Disabled Welfare)

2) the relevant district's education authority (primary) - if you have primary school activities.

Or if the education authority (secondary) - secondary school activities

3) District welfare officer, district council member or assistant clerk.

Social Welfare, Mumbai Suburbs and Cities or Secretary.

Other relevant officials directed by Department of Disability Welfare

4. Responsibilities of the District Assessment Committee:

The members of the Assessment Committee shall make a self-assessment sample of the activities of the persons with disabilities, and shall make a report on the visit. The relevant institution shall be notified at least one day before the actual inspection. If the Chairman of the Committee is unable to attend the inspection for any reason, he or she may nominate an additional Chief Executive Officer for the inspection of the activities of the persons with disabilities.

The photo of the relevant disability activities (including sear / drawing) will be attached to the photo inspection report, as well as uploaded to the website of the Disability Welfare Commission. Also, if it is found that disability activities are closed at the time of inspection, it will be necessary to attach the photo of the disability activities (including drawings) to the inspection report.

In addition to the above-mentioned evaluation check, in the current situation, the activities of persons with disabilities who are receiving grants should be regularly inspected in October by the relevant District Social Welfare Officer or other relevant officer directed by the Department of Disability Welfare in accordance with the above procedures. The inspection report should be uploaded to the website of the Department of Disability Welfare and Commission with photos and sent to Ayuk Tha, Disability Welfare.

6 out of 14

--- Source page 7 ---

Governance Decree No: EDD-2022/ Proc.65/D.K.1

Committee of Inquiry

1st Commissioner, Disability Welfare, Maharashtra State, President of Pune

2) Deputy Commissioner, Disability Welfare, Maharashtra State, Pune Member Secretary

3) Assistant Commissioner, Disability Welfare, State of Maharashtra, Pune or Disability Member

Other relevant officials directed by the Department of Welfare

8) Superintendent (Related to YAQ, Disability Welfare, Maharashtra State, Pune)

The Chairman and Commissioner of the Inquiry Committee, Disabled Welfare, State of Maharashtra is in his possession.

Regional Deputy Commissioner, Department of Social Welfare to participate in the work of the Audit Committee

(Related Department) or other relevant officials as directed by the Department of Disability Welfare as well as necessities

The district social welfare officer/assistant agencies of the concerned district or other relevant officials directed by the Department of Disability Welfare may be invited as invited members if necessary.

The responsibilities of the Review Committee are as follows:-

The examination committee shall examine the total applications received for evaluation according to the date of the registration certificate, after which the examination committee shall evaluate according to the self-assessment sample, and then submit to the Government a report of eligible initiatives with explicit feedback, taking into account the seniority of the initiative and other aspects, in order for the relevant disabled initiatives to be approved on a non-grant basis.

The Examination Committee shall submit the application to the Government by 15th January of the relevant financial year with its opinion along with the list of seniority rankings which it has prepared, after which the State-level Examination Committee shall examine the report as follows.

Statewide Audit Committee

1 Co-Director, Department of Disability Welfare, Ministry, Chairman of Maharashtra

State, Mumbai.

2nd Deputy Commissioner, Disabled Welfare, Maharashtra State, Pune Member

3) Our Saviv, (D.K.1) Department of Disability Welfare, Ministry, Member Secretary

Maharashtra state, Mumbai.

4) Room officer, Department of Disability Welfare, Ministry, Members

Maharashtra state, Mumbai.

6. Responsibilities of the State-level Audit Committee:

In accordance with the report submitted to the Government for approval on a grant basis by the Investigative Committee on the basis of non-grant basis, the State Level Inspection Committee shall review the registration certificate renewal, seniority of disabled enterprises, rating and evaluation, how the reservation policy has been observed in the recruitment of personnel, the online biometric availability of students/beneficiaries, as well as their identification work reports and employee kits approved by the State Level Inspection Committee, the availability of disabled enterprises, the geographical situation, the number of entries, the availability of allowances, the availability of allowances, the availability of allowances, the availability of allowances, the availability of allowances, the availability of allowances, the availability of allowances, the availability of allowances, the availability of allowances, the availability of allowances, the availability of allowances, the availability of allowances, the availability of allowances, the availability of allowances, the availability of allowances, the availability of allowances, the availability of allowances, the availability of allowances, the availability of allowances, and the availability of allowances of allowances, the availability of allowances, the availability of allowances, the availability of allowances and the availability of allowances of allowances of allowances of allowances.

7 out of 14

--- Source page 8 ---

Governance Decree No: EDD-2022/ Proc.65/D.K.1

7. Announcement of activities of persons with disabilities eligible for subsidy:-

(a) The Department of Disability Welfare will announce by the end of February the list of disability initiatives eligible for subsidy after approval by the Government and the Commissioner, Disability Welfare, Maharashtra State, Pune will decide on the relevant disability initiatives within 15 days of the list being declared in respect of eligible/disabled disability initiatives.

(b) The activities of persons with disabilities eligible for subsidy shall be specified in paragraph 15 of this Decision.

Grants will be awarded accordingly.

3g

The non-subsidy-based activities of persons with disabilities were granted grants once they were eligible for grants, but after that they will be classified in the category b in the inspection report for three consecutive years.

(d) The following measures will be taken by the Government for the activities of persons with disabilities included in the scrutiny report.

1) Maintenance subsidy in addition to other salary subsidy in whole or in part:

2) penalty of at least Rs 3 lakh to a maximum of Rs 10 lakh (annual) or

3) Cancellation of approval

The Secretary of the Institution and the District Social Welfare Officer, District Council for the purposes of subparagraph D (2)

The deposit amount of Rs.5 lakh in the Joint Account is required to be deposited in the form of deposits in a nationalized bank.

I think so.

(e) by cancelling the registration certificate for disabled enterprises or by not renewing it within the prescribed period

have been cancelled and whose registration certificates have been cancelled within the prescribed period and

Appeals to the statutory authority are not pending, and therefore they are closed.

Subsidy Approval will be permanently cancelled. 8. Subsidy Approval will be permanently abolished. The Subsidy Approval Policy will be implemented by deciding on the demands of disabled enterprises that have applied to the Government for approval on the Subsidy Principle prior to the implementation of the Subsidy Policy. The Subsidy Policy will be implemented by deciding on the validity of the Subsidy Principle.

9. Subsidy is the voluntary authority of the government:-

1) According to the prescribed criteria of disability initiatives operating on permanent non-subsidy basis in the State.

After the inspection, non-subsidized enterprises in category A will be approved on a subsidy basis.

8 out of 14

--- Source page 9 ---

Governance Decree No: EDD-2022/ Proc.65/D.K.1

2) Budgetary provision will be made in the next year of the relevant financial year for the salary/non-salary subsidy fund expected for eligible disability activities.

3) A separate Governance Decree will be issued when granting them after finalising the list of eligible disabled initiatives for grants.

4) Salary and payroll and other grants to eligible disabled enterprises dated 18th July, 2018

Provisions of the School Code dated 5th February, 2019 and subsequent periodic changes.

The amendments will be approved accordingly.

10. If an activity of a disabled person is disqualified from evaluation for five consecutive years, the proposal for that year shall be:

The seniority sequence of related disability initiatives will automatically come to an end and will be followed by three consecutive ones.

After years of eligibility for the evaluation, the subsidy will be considered for the next period.

It will come.

11. Under the Subsidy Policy, the Subsidy Approval Procedure shall be conducted once a year in the month of October to February of the relevant financial year. However, the Government may indicate that the Subsidy Approval Procedure shall not be conducted for one or more financial years.

12. With regard to Allowance of Salary/Non-Salary Funds when Disability Activities are Closed:- Students/ Beneficiaries

In case of insufficient numbers or lack of GLA facilities or other reasons, the subsidiary handicapped enterprise has ceased or has ceased due to cancellation of registration certificate, there will be no salary/non-salary fund/subsidy licence during the period of closure of such enterprise.

However, if the Order of Cancellation of Registration Certificate is suspended by the Appellate Authority or the High Court and the related activities of persons with disabilities continue, it will remain a pay/non-wage subsidy permit for the suspension period.

13. if a disability initiative is continuously receiving direct government-approved grants; and

In the meantime, if the registration certificate of the participating enterprise has been revoked and against it

Submitted to the Appellate Authority within the prescribed period in accordance with the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016

Commissioner for Adjustment of Approved Personnel in Such Undertakings

In the circular dated 12th May, 2021, Kalyan stated that

It will be mandatory to act in accordance with the amendments.

14. Increased salary and non-salary grants in proportion to students who have been approved for student/beneficiary increase in accordance with the prescribed procedures and with the approval of the Department of Finance will not be allowed for the first academic year of such approval. The relevant special school/workshop will then be eligible for Increased Grants.

15. Government Approval on Subsidy Principle to Disabled Activities Following Implementation of Head Policy

After receipt, the dates of each handicapped event of the department are July 18, 2018 and February 6, 2019.

9 out of 14

--- Source page 10 ---

Governance Decree No: EDD-2022/ Proc.65/D.K.1

According to the Governing Decree of the School Code, the salary, non-wage subsidy (eight per cent of employee salary), 75 per cent of the amount directly paid as building rent and maintenance subsidy (as per the Governing Decree of 3 March, 2019), will be paid in the form of Rs 1500/ per student per day for schools with disabilities, Rs 1650/ per student per month for children with disabilities and Rs 2000/ per student per month for kindergartens with disabilities as per the Governing Decree of 1 November, 2017.

16. Subsidized Disability Initiatives -

(a) Residential handicapped schools and workshops should be granted licensed posts of teachers and non-teaching staff in accordance with the Statutes dated 18th August, 2004 and the accepted number of students.

(b) The recruitment/appointment for teachers and non-teaching staff shall be made mandatory in accordance with Government procedures and reservation policy.

(e) Submission of a proposal for the recognition of posts in disabled enterprises to be approved by the High-Level Secretariat Committee. Submission of a report on the availability of Aadhaar Fe Online Biometric under Disabled Enterprises will be mandatory.

Disabled residents/non-residents of institutions that do not comply with the above provisions

Teachers and non-teaching staff of the enterprise will not be paid. Government reservation

It will be the responsibility of all relevant institutions to pay the salaries of teachers/non-teaching staff who have been appointed against policy or against the Act.

17. If the Institution appoints additional teachers and non-teaching staff in addition to approved staff for disability activities, the full responsibility for the salaries of such additional teachers and non-teaching staff shall be vested entirely in the respective Institution. Government shall not be responsible for the salaries of such additional employees.

18. Department of Social Justice and Special Assistance Government decision on 18th July, 2018

Schools in the skeletal category should not be given a new accreditation/registration certificate under the provisions of Chapter 2 (eight) of the Special School Code applicable to schools, workshops training centres, affiliated hostels, Mattimand Children's Home, Prompte Diagnostic and Prompte Treatment Centres.

19. Grants to disabled enterprises as per the availability of funds.

Will be delivered.

20. Wage subsidy for teachers and non-teaching staff in residential/non-residential enterprises with disabilities

The money will be deposited in the bank account.

21. Each teacher and non-teaching staff shall be resident at the headquarters of the handicapped resident/non-resident initiative, and the hostel officer/guardian shall be resident in the hostel. In addition to holidays, their absence shall be considered as their absence.

Page 14 out of 10

--- Source page 11 ---

Governance Decree No: EDD-2022/ Proc.65/D.K.1

Subsidized residential/non-residential activities of the institute shall be provided with the mechanism/machine of the Aadhaar attached-online biometric presence system, and upon its implementation they shall be obliged to register the presence of student teachers and non-teacher staff on the Aadhaar system. Member machinery/machinery which has not been provided to the institutional disabled residential activities shall be provided immediately upon the recommendation of the relevant competent authority and the Member machinery/experts on the Aadhaar attached-online biometric presence system shall be implemented in the Aadhaar/non-resident activities.

23. All students, teachers and non-teaching staff of subsidized non-resident schools/workshops shall register their attendance through the above biometric system at 10.00 am and after leaving school and after their regular office hours by teachers and non-teaching staff. Unless they register their attendance on the subscription system and attendance every month to the competent officer i.e. Commissioner, Disabled Welfare, Assistant Commissioner, Social Welfare, Regional Deputy Commissioner, Social Welfare, or District Social Welfare Officer or Government, they shall not be paid through the social service system unless they are paid to the relevant teacher or non-teaching staff responsible for the on-line biometric system of attendance on the basis of WHIT or Government.

24. Each student of Vivang Subsidized Residential School, as well as relevant staff required for residential schools and workshops, shall be required to register their attendance on the Online Biometric System at 10.00 am and 9.00 pm. The attendance recorded on the Subsidized Residential School will be checked by the competent authority and the Government on a monthly basis and the maintenance subsidy will be distributed to the students accordingly.

25. The number of students with disabilities attending the school/workshop of the institution (July,

Teacher and non-teaching staff positions will be awarded on average of three months of attendance (based on Aadhaar Uo Online Biometric Attendance System) on the basis of maintenance subsidy, salary and payroll subsidy and building rents.

26. The Institution will be required to provide all the physical/educational facilities necessary for disabled residential/non-residential activities. Institutions that do not provide such physical and educational facilities will not be permitted to grant non-wage grants and building rent to disabled residential/non-residential activities of the Institution, and the Government will not be responsible for the expenditure of such material and educational facilities.

27. Any student with a disability who has been authorized/approved/permitted to operate the disability type activities of the relevant institution with a disability resident/non-resident will not be denied admission (even if he/she is overweight/HIV-affected).

Page 14 of 11

--- Source page 12 ---

Governance Decree No: EDD-2022/ Proc.65/D.K.1

If the competent authority or the government notifies, immediate action will be taken against such disabled resident/non-resident initiative and the accreditation of such disabled resident/non-resident initiative will be revoked.

28. Disabled residential/non-resident initiatives of the grant recipient institutions will have to provide adequate accommodation and meals for disabled students. They will also have to provide adequate care for the cleanliness of the students, cleaning of their rooms, clean uniforms and clothing, provision, timely cutting of nails and hair, ensuring that there is no sexual abuse, taking care of elderly girls, not cooking on the toilet, supplying students with hot water for bathing, supplying them with clean and disinfected drinking water, supplying sports entertainment materials, providing them with desks for seating in activities, providing them with benches, providing them with adequate cleaning and cleaning facilities, cancelling health activities such as cleaning and cleaning of buildings, and providing them with adequate cleaning and cleaning facilities for their daily activities.

29. Disabled residential/non-residential initiatives of subsidized institutions should enhance the literacy quality of disabled students.

30. No new recruitment shall be made to the Disabled Resident/Non-Resident Activity of any institution recognised on a grant basis. Firstly, adjustment shall be made of teachers and non-teaching staff who have been recruited from the Disabled Activity. When new recruitment is to be approved in the relevant Disabled Activity, the competent authority shall first verify that no additional teacher and non-teaching staff are available in the adjacent district, department and then state.

31. In a school/workshop for the handicapped of the osteopathic category, students with osteopathic disabilities who are unable to proceed without any basis shall be admitted to the osteopathic class. Students with osteopathic disabilities who are able to proceed on any basis may be admitted to the general school. By granting such a student with osteopathic disabilities access to the general school, all the facilities required by the rules shall be provided and all discounted benefits shall be given to those who have come to the school without the need of any other staff.

32. Specialized teachers, Directors of Special Vocational Education, Special Arts/Crafts/Painting/Music/Physical Education appointed to various types of disability activities which are recognized on the subsidy basis and which are currently receiving government grants.

Page 14 of 12

--- Source page 13 ---

Governance Decree No: EDD-2022/ Proc.65/D.K.1

The posts of Special Teachers and Special Directors shall not be recognised if the teacher/director indicates that there is no such special educational qualification in the residential activities of those with disabilities. The posts of Special Teachers and Special Directors shall not be recognised if there is no such special educational qualification in the residential activities.

33. Verify the number of eligible students and the actual number of students present by checking the records of the previous 5 years of the grant activities of the concerned disabled. Verify that the student admitted in the previous year has entered the next class or not in the next year by checking the reasons for not being admitted in the next year. Verify that the same teachers and non-teaching staff who have been admitted in the previous 5 years are currently employed in the same school or not.

34. No change shall be made in the number of students and staff of the Student Disabled Resident/Non-Resident Initiative without Government approval. Only the Disabled Resident Initiative which will meet the Government's terms/conditions before grant approval shall be eligible for grant.

35. A comprehensive framework of disability initiatives for the State should be drawn up immediately, taking into account the number of disabled persons with disabilities in the State, with an overview of the disability initiatives in the State.

36. if the terms and conditions laid down in the Special Disability Event are fulfilled; and

Regular grants will be granted taking into account availability of funds.

If it is established that the activities of persons with disabilities are receiving regular grants from the Central Government, State Governments, local bodies or other media, such disabled activities/institutions will be disqualified from receiving State Government grants.

38. The accreditation of the institute shall be revoked if it is found that the terms and conditions and procedures laid down by the Government in order to bring it into subsidy principle have not been complied with from time to time. 39. Schools/workshops which have been approved on subsidy principle by Government Decree of 8th April, 2015, subject to the prescribed terms and archer, the terms and conditions of the relevant Schools/PMB SAA Decree of 8th April, 2015 shall also apply to all persons with disabilities whose subsidized activities under the Department of Welfare have been carried out prior to the date of the enactment of this Government Decree.

The expenditure on the mainly funded disability activities will be distributed by the Government upon availability of funds and the expenditure of the following year will be covered by the provisions available for that year under the accounting authority.

Sadhar Governance Decision of the Cabinet on 5th July, 2024

It is being discharged as per the approval.

Page 14 of 13

--- Source page 14 ---

Governance Decree No: EDD-2022/ Proc.65/D.K.1

42. Good Governance Decisions are available at www.maharashtra.gov.in of the Government of Maharashtra.

It has a computer code of 202407161623388635.

Decisions are being issued by digital signature.

By order and on behalf of the Governor of Maharashtra,

Digitally signed by SUMANT NAMDEORAO BHANGE

DN: c=IN, 0=GOVERNMENT OF MAHARASHTRA, ou=SOCIAL JUSTICE

S U M A N T AND SPECIAL ASSISTANCE DEPARTMENT,

2.5.4.20=17b7f71196a30fSdadd3859d04bf654ed8b2dd1177972936d

56dcefe4daa38e, postalCode=400032, st=Maharasht!

N AM D E O RAO B HA N G E 1 FB1 B48850CC3E5A74179F14C10EC607D89BEA3022F

75E225829CC7525E64558, -SUMANT NAMDEORAO BHANGE

Date: 2024.07.16 16:37:00 +05'30'

(Applause)

Secretary, Department of Disability Welfare

A copy:

1) Ma. Secretary to the Governor, Ministry, Mumbai Yoo 032,

) Ma. Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, Ministry, Mumbai 400 032, Ma. Deputy Chief Minister (House) / (Finance) Secretary to Ministry, Bombay 400 032 Ma. Speaker, Private Secretary to Legislative Council,

AD

2, 008 Ww

5) Ma. Chairman, Private Secretary to the Legislative Assembly,

Private Secretary to all Ministers/Ministers of State, Ministry, Mumbai 400 032,

Ma. Leader of Opposition (Assembly/Legislative Council), Maharashtra Legislative Assembly Secretariat, Mumbai,

) Chief Secretary, Ministry, Mumbai 400 032,

) All other Chief Secretary / Principal Secretary / Secretary, Ministry, Mumbai 400 032,

10) Principal Auditor General (Accounting and Licensing)-1, Maharashtra, Mumbai,

11) Principal Auditor General (Accounting / Accounting and Licensing)-2, Maharashtra, Nagpur,

12) Director General, Directorate General of Information and Public Relations, Mumbai,

13) Commissioner, Disabled Welfare, Maharashtra State, Pune,

14) Bharatiya Janata Party, Maharashtra Pradesh, C.D.O. Barek No. 1, Yogaksam Front, Vasantrao Bhagwat

Square, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 020,

15) Indian IAG Congress, Maharashtra Pradesh Congress (I), Committee, Tilak Bhavan,

It is located in Dadra, Mumbai 400 025.

6) Nationalist Congress Party, Rashtrapati Bhavan, Free Press Journal Road, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400021,

17) Shiv Sena, Shivsena Bhavan, Gadkari Square, Dadar, Mumbai 400 028,

8) Bahujan Samaj Party, D-1, Insa Hatment, Azad Maidan, Mumbai 400 001,

9) Indian Communist Party, Maharashtra Committee, 314, Raj Bhavan, S. V. Patel Road, Mumbai,

20) Communist Party of India (Marxist), Maharashtra Committee, People Power Hall, Globe Mill Palace,

It's in Warli, Mumbai.

21 Maharashtra Navyankar Sena, Rajgarh, Matoshree Tower, Shivaji Park, Dadra, Mumbai 400 028,

All CEOs, District Council

23) Directorate, Directorate of Accounting and Treasury, Maharashtra State, Mumbai

24) Regional Deputy Commissioner, Social Welfare,

25) District Social Welfare Officer, District Council,

26) Assistant Commissioner, Mumbai City / Suburbs,

27) Audit and Accounting Officer, Mumbai,

28) Residential Auditor, Mumbai,

29) All District Treasury officers,

0 selection of food.

Nn SM

2)

Page 14 of 14

--- Source page 15 ---

Page 1 of 21

Department of Disability Welfare, Govt. Decree No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 65/D.C. 9, dated 16 Yoh, 2024.

Model of self-assessment of schools, workshops and orphanages affiliated with special schools and workshops

The name of the institute and the full address of the institution: the name and full address: the institution's name and the entire address: scores of institute's district assessment: the district assessment A.C. details: the total number of subjects: the self-assessment committee's 100th opinion of the evaluation committee.

नोंदी

Percentage

Registration with UDID certificate attachment under the Sardar system

100% of the number of students accepted or

More

5 गुण

The number of accepted students is 90 Sah or 90

More than 1% but more than 100%.

कमी

3 गुण

Less than 90 per cent of the accepted student population

0 गुण

C:\Users\HP\Desktop\f.a. 1\Document 202302022065.2022subsidy policy drawing My 4057 self-assessment sample.1009

--- Source page 16 ---

Page 2 of 21

Department of Disability Welfare, Government Decision No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 65/D.K. 9, dated 16 Yoh, 2024 Form accompanied.

A. Explanation of the details

(b) Logs with Aadhaar card attachment under Sardar system

Percentage recorded with Aadhaar card attachment under Sardar system

5 points or more of 100 per cent of the number of students accepted

90 percent of the accepted student body, or 3 points.

More than 10% but less than 100%.

Less than 90 per cent of accepted student numbers 0 marks

About the attachment logs.

2) UDID certificate Aadhaar card of entries from all classes of workshops

The number of entries accepted

UDIID certificate attached entries of entered number

Notes attached to Aadhaar card

(a) UDID Certificate on records of attachment.

UDIID certificate attachment records but 100

Less than a ton.

Percentage of points

100% UDID Certificate of Accepted Number, 5 points

The following is a list of articles that have been translated into English:

23 points more than 90 percent or 90 percent of the accepted number of entries

Scores out of 100.

Self-assessment of the organization

Evaluation of District Assessment Committee

The District Assessment Committee's response

C:\Users\HP\Desktop\f.a. 1\Document 202302022065.2022subsidy policy drawing My 4057 self-assessment sample.1009

--- Source page 17 ---

Page 3 of 21

Department of Disability Welfare, Govt. Decree No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 65/D.C. 9, dated 16 Yoh, 2024.

Model of self-assessment of schools, workshops and orphanages affiliated with special schools and workshops

District rating of the rating agency.

The overall self-assessment committee's assessment committee.

One hundred replies

Records of UDIID Certificate attachment less than 90 per cent of the accepted number of entries b) records of Aadhaar card attachment.

Aadhaar card 100 per cent of accepted number 5 points

List of attachments (numbers)

3 points more than 90% or 90% of the accepted number of entries

Aadhaar card attachment records (numbers)

Aadhaar card less than 90 per cent of the accepted number of entries 0 points

List of attachments (numbers)

3) Scholarships received from the Central/State Government for students in special fields.

percentage points of °8

Eighty percent or more of the accepted student population.

If students are getting scholarships,

However, more than one percent of the number of students accepted. 1 point

Less than 80 percent of students receive scholarships.

If it is.

C:\Users\HP\Desktop\f.a. 1\Document 202302022065.2022subsidy policy drawing My 4057 self-assessment sample.1009

--- Source page 18 ---

Page 4 of 21

Department of Disability Welfare, Government Decree No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 65/D.K. 9, dated 16th July, 2024 Form accompanied.

What is the significance of this?

Less than 50 per cent of the number of students accepted.

If you get a scholarship,

4) a) Special school/workshop website / Google Map

Information about the school itself or the institution. 1 point

If you have an up-to-date and informative website,

If not 0 points.

(Website address required)

If the school appears on Google Maps,

2 गुण

If not,

0 गुण

(PIS map leak must be provided)

Scores out of 100.

Self-assessment of the organization

Evaluation of District Assessment Committee

The District Assessment Committee's response

817sh$70109$ then0d.k. 10090॥॥1202302022065.2022subsidy policymaking My 4057self-assessment AeA. docx

--- Source page 19 ---

Page 5 of 21

Department of Disability Welfare, Government Decision No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 65/D.C. 9, dated 16 Yoh, 2024 Form accompanied.

The percentage of persons with disabilities in the previous year.

Ratio of intensity:

The percentage of people with disabilities

75 per cent or more of the total number of entries.

If the severity of the disability is 80 percent or more,

The severity of disability of 75 per cent of the total number of entries.

If it's between 60 and 80 percent,

The severity of the disability of 75 of the total number of cab entries.

If it's between 40 and 60 percent, the score is

गुण

04 गुण

03 YT

District rating of the rating agency.

A.A.R. is a summary of the self-assessment committee.

One hundred replies

3. Teachers who teach in handicapped schools/workshops/business trainers.

03

The status of the directors' staff,

RCI for teachers/managers has 3 points.

If the registration and its periodic renewal is 100 percent

Teacher/director personnel have an RCI of 00.

If there is no registration and it is not renewed periodically

4. Recruitment in Disabled Schools/Workshops, 03

As of August 18, 2004, all licensed positions are rated at 03 points.

If it's running continuously

02 points if more than 10 posts are in continuous operation

If more than 50 per cent of posts are continuously functioning 01 points

C:\Users\HP\Desktop\f.aF. 1008॥॥sh1202302022065.2022subsidy policymaking My 4057 self-assessment AeA. docx

--- Source page 20 ---

Page 6 of 21

Department of Disability Welfare, Government Decision No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 65/D.K. 9, dated 16 Yoh, 2024 Form accompanied.

If fewer than 5 jobs are in continuous operation

District rating of the rating agency.

A.A.R. details the overall self-assessment committee's assessment committee.

One hundred replies

(If the building is owned by the institution itself/ if it is rented by registered charity under a registered contract/ if the charity has been taken by the government or an undertaking adopted by government or if it has been rented under a charity registered by a local self-governing body)

C:\Users\HP\Desktop\f.a. 1\Document 202302022065.2022subsidy policy drawing My 4057 self-assessment sample.1009

NICH Disabled School Disability Workshop score A Building score A building score A3 if the institution is owned by the owner of the building if the owner owns the property if the rental rate is 01 if the rent rate is 01.

Physical facilities in enterprise 26 points

Building quality of the enterprise 04 points

Building Points

RCC Building 04 points

If you have a cement, brick, letter / brick roof, 02 points.

In addition to the above, if you have a simple building, 00 points.

Building an enterprise 08 points

--- Source page 21 ---

Page 7 of 21

Department of Disability Welfare, Government Decision No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 65/D.C. 9, dated 16 Yoh, 2024 Form accompanied.

8107sh$॥0109$ then0di.k. 1009॥॥1202302022065.2022subsidy policy1contributed My 4057self-assessment AeA. docx

Scores out of 100.

What is the significance of this?

The date of each class is July 18th, the date is July 18, if

2018 and the date of the room.

Dimensions are February 5, February 5, if not.

School of 2019: School of 2019.

According to the Code, according to the code.

Classes, classrooms,

(Toilets, (toilets)

The toilet, the toilet,

Visitors, visitors,

Staff room, staff room,

The hall, the hall,

Dining room, dining room,

Residential house, etc.

(Laughter)

Resident per resident per resident

Student minimum. Student minimum

60 square feet.

If a school is a school

Code by code by code 02 points per code

If a nonresident is not a non-resident

rere) गुण

Self-assessment of the organization

Evaluation of District Assessment Committee

The District Assessment Committee's response

--- Source page 22 ---

Page 8 of 21

Department of Disability Welfare, Government Decree No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 65/D.K. 9, dated 16th July, 2024 Form accompanied.

District rating of the rating agency.

A.A.R. is a summary of the self-assessment committee.

One hundred replies

Student minimum. Student minimum

40 square feet.

C. Light in the square.

And the score of five.

So, if not every one, 00 if not 00.

One point in a class.

Fruit and a

What is it?

S. School. If you're finished, complete.

Workshop. If you don't have a grade.

00 points for a building 00 points

Compound

For kids, it's perfect.

The qualities of girls.

If it's not for security, 00.

That's right.

The arrangement

(Agnidaman,

c:\Users\HP\Desktop\fe.. 1\Documen

First aid)

t 20235202265.2022Subsidy policy development My ॥0(9Self-assessment AeA. docx

--- Source page 23 ---

Page 9 of 21

Department of Disability Welfare, Government Decision No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 65/D.K. 9, dated 16 Yoh, 2024 Form accompanied.

Educational literature (if full marks, if not, 00 marks)

A physical therapy / business therapy / read therapy / psychotherapy 1 point

A separate drill for the laboratory

Physical therapy / business therapy / reading therapy / psychotherapy laboratory tools needed to increase research attitudes among students entering schools / workshops with disabilities

And it's important to have the necessary tools to develop its awareness.)

02 गुण

District rating of the rating agency.

A.A.R. details the overall self-assessment committee's assessment committee.

One hundred replies

Four. One for school (Library) (If full score, if not, 00)

A. Every book in the library, every church, newspapers, magazines, 00.50 points.

What is the meaning of this article?

gq. book shelves/reader seating.

One school score for all students/teachers of the library facility.

Increased use in time and beyond. Materials available for the overall development of students in libraries of schools/workshops with disabilities.

02 गुण

C:\Users\HP\Desktop\f.a. 1\Document 202302022065.2022subsidy policy drawing My 4057 self-assessment sample.1009

--- Source page 24 ---

Page 10 of 21

Department of Disability Welfare, Govt. Decree No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 65/D.C. 9, dated 16 Yoh, 2024.

Model of self-assessment of schools, workshops and orphanages for handicapped children

District rating of the rating agency.

It's all about self-assessment.

One hundred replies

(2) For workshops: Beneficiaries' occupation or employment obtained by them

How many beneficiaries were last year's total beneficiaries?

His own business number.

Started a business or started a whole business.

I got a job.

(Number) The number of deaths

S. Over 30 per cent of those who completed the training last year benefited from the benefits.

If the beneficiaries started their own business or got a job,

If you get 02 points, you get 00 points.

Cosmetic house (if full score, if not, 00 points) 03 points

A. Toilet facilities for entry.

(if any)

Toys. Men and boys. Women and girls.

The number of households

There's plenty of water for the bathroom, 0.5 points.

C. Toilet cleaning / cleaning 1 point

6. Drinking water facility 02 points

A. If the drinking water is supplied through a tap through a local self-government organization.

2 गुण

8107sh$॥0109$at0e.c. 1\Document 202302022065.2022subsidy policy drawing My 4057 self-assessment AeA. docx

--- Source page 25 ---

Page 11 of 21

Department of Disability Welfare, Government Decision No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 65/D.K. 9, dated 16 Yoh, 2024 Form accompanied.

If the students won their first prize last year,

If a school has enough space for its own playground, 1 point.

One point on the school's crowd-sourced materials.

If it is.

C. District/State/National Crowd Competition: 1 point from school.

If you don't have any facilities like this,

rere) गुण

District rating of the rating agency.

A.A.R. details the overall self-assessment committee's assessment committee.

One hundred replies

In addition to the above, we're going to put in an RO/UV, or one point.

If there is another way to provide drinking water)

00 points if none of the above are arranged.

7. Computer room 02 points

A. If you have enough computers in school, you get a score of 00.50.

B. If you have a computer lab seating system, 00.50 points.

A. If you have an Internet connection in a computer lab, you get a score of 00.50

The computer lab is used after school hours.

If it is.

If you don't have any facilities, 00 points.

8. Sports and student sports facilities 03 points

C:\Users\HP\Desktop\f.a. 1\Document 202302022065.2022subsidy policy drawing My 4057 self-assessment sample.1009

--- Source page 26 ---

Page 12 of 21

Department of Disability Welfare, Government Decision No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 65/D.C. 9, dated 16 Yoh, 2024 Form accompanied.

What is the significance of this?

The Centre will be under the chairmanship of the Principal to provide emotional and Buddhist counselling to students entering the School for the Disabled and their parents for the diagnosis and treatment of disability.

If the center of the header is functional, if there is no full score.

00 points will be permitted.

Full score, if not 00 marks, if the daily record of the activities of the school to provide emotional and Buddhist counselling to students and their parents enrolled in a school with disabilities and to diagnose and promptly treat feared aia.

If you keep a daily record of the actions taken to guide the business in the case of workshops, complete score, if not 00 points.

2 गुण

गुण

The total

100 पैकी

5 गुण

Self-assessment of the organization

Evaluation of District Assessment Committee

The District Assessment Committee's response

Program: (If yes, full score, if not 00 points.)

There are a number of social development initiatives.

If you're planting and growing trees.

8107sh$॥0109$at0e.c. 1\Document 202302022065.2022subsidy policy drawing My 4057 self-assessment AeA. docx

jog |

2 गुण

--- Source page 27 ---

Page 13 of 21

Department of Disability Welfare, Government Decision No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 65/D.K. 9, dated 16 Yoh, 2024 Form accompanied.

If initiatives are being undertaken to create a culture of national unity

To reflect the values of social commitment, records of the above events held by the school shall be kept and the school will be allowed 1 point in consideration of the organisation and benefits of all these events.

00.560गुण

00.50गुण

District rating of the rating agency.

A.A.R. details the overall self-assessment committee's assessment committee.

One hundred replies

Participation in Co-PRAGA Activities of students from Disabled Schools / Workshops

School records of pupils at district/department/state national level participating in science (science exhibitions, olympics, sports, literature etc. competitions, music, arts, rhetoric competitions and personality development activities and facilities provided by the school will be available to the school.

3 points if there is state-level participation

2 points if there is a divisional participation.

1 point if there is participation at district level

If none of these are, 00 points.

3 गुण

C:\Users\HP\Desktop\f.a. 1\Document 202302022065.2022subsidy policy drawing My 4057 self-assessment sample.1009

--- Source page 28 ---

Page 14 of 21

Department of Disability Welfare, Government Decision No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 65/D.C. 9, dated 16 Yoh, 2024 Form accompanied.

What is the significance of this?

Schools' efforts for eco-friendly, rainwater harvesting, unconventional energy, water recycling, etc.

Minimum of 1 kilowatt of solar or other unconventional energy

3 rainwater harvesting measures if

If one of the above solar cells and any of the other two

If one of the above is a kilowatt solar power.

If there's no Yuki,

3 गुण

2 गुण

1 गुण

rere) गुण

Scores out of 100.

Self-assessment of the organization

Evaluation of District Assessment Committee

The District Assessment Committee's response

Three points of attendance in schools/workshops over the past five years is recorded using a biometric method via Aadhaar link.

Criteria for Registration Certificate 5 points

In the last five years, the registration certificate has been revoked once.

If it didn't happen,

In the last five years, the registration certificate has been revoked once.

If the appeal order has been restored,

Two or more times in the last five years.

Registration Certificate revoked and resumed by order of appeal

If it did.

Registration of entries in the activities 3 points

8107sh$॥0109$at0e.c. 1\Document 202302022065.2022subsidy policy drawing My 4057 self-assessment AeA. docx

--- Source page 29 ---

Page 15 of 21

Department of Disability Welfare, Government Decision No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 65/D.C. 9, dated 16 Yoh, 2024 Form accompanied.

What is the significance of this?

Schools/workshops in the last five years

There is a HOA in biometrically recording the presence of the accessors but, without a web-based link.

Web-based biometric recording of school/workshop attendance over the last five years

Management of activities if not registered via link

2 गुण

rere) गुण

Scores out of 100.

Self-assessment of the organization

Evaluation of District Assessment Committee

The District Assessment Committee's response

1.

2. Establishment of a parent-teacher team

3.

4. To solve the problem of disabled people.

Establishment of School/Workshop Management Committee

Establishment of Food Management Committee

Establishment of Residence Management Committee appointed by the Complaints Resolution Officer

5 गुण

3)

If all these committees are constituted by HIS

5 गुण

If any of the above four committees are constituted,

4 गुण

If any of the above three committees are constituted,

3 गुण

If any of the above two committees are constituted,

2 गुण

If any of the above committees are constituted

1 गुण

If any of the above committees have not been constituted,

0 गुण

6 गुण

c:\Users\HP\Desktop\fe.%. 1\Docum

Subsidy policy development My 4057 self-assessment sample.1005

--- Source page 30 ---

Page 16 of 21

Department of Disability Welfare, Govt. Decree No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 65/D.C. 9, dated 16 Yoh, 2024.

Model of self-assessment of schools, workshops and orphanages affiliated with special schools and workshops

District rating of the rating agency.

A.A.R. details the overall self-assessment committee's assessment committee.

One hundred replies

If the output is complete, then 00 points.

The history of the meeting with the heads of committees

5 गुण

If the facility is built according to the five-point criteria of the Accessible India Campaign implemented by the Central Government and is certified by the relevant authority, the full scores will remain permissible.

If the facility is built to the three-point criteria of the Accessible India Campaign implemented by the Central Government, but not certified by the relevant authority,

0 points from the Accessible India Campaign implemented by the Central Government

If the building of the enterprise is not accessible by the criteria,

Measures taken to ensure the safety of entries in activities 5 Points

(a) Residential activities -

In residential buildings and surrounding areas, the organization scored three points.

CCTV installation and 24-hour operation

And if so, at least one month of data storage capacity.

If it is.

C:\Users\HP\Desktop\f.a. 1\Document 202302022065.2022subsidy policy drawing My 4057 self-assessment sample.1009

--- Source page 31 ---

Page 17 of 21

Department of Disability Welfare, Govt. Decree No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 65/D.C. 9, dated 16 Yoh, 2024.

Model of self-assessment of schools, workshops and orphanages for handicapped children

If the visitor is registered at the entry and exit points and the entry registration is verified at least once a week by the head of the enterprise

If at night the premises of the building are patrolled at a fixed interval by an employee appointed by the institution and the corresponding personnel appointed on duty are periodically entered in the register of the head patrol.

1 गुण

If all measures are taken in accordance with the above, the full scores will remain permissible otherwise the scores under the above measures will remain permitted.

(b) For non-resident activities:

In a non-residential building and surrounding area, if the institution has implemented CCTV installation and minimum operational time, and if it has the capacity to store data for at least one month.

2 गुण

If the visitor is registered at the entry and exit points and the entry registration is verified at least once a week by the head of the enterprise

1 गुण

If a vehicle owned or leased by the institution is provided for the transportation of passengers, and for that purpose

If the driver and carrier are appointed

8107sh$॥0109$at0e.c. 1\Document 202302022065.2022subsidy policy drawing My 4057 self-assessment AeA. docx

2 गुण

District rating of the rating agency.

A.A.R. is a summary of the self-assessment committee.

One hundred replies

--- Source page 32 ---

Page 18 of 21

Department of Disability Welfare, Government Decision No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 65/D.K. 9, dated 16 Yoh, 2024 Form accompanied.

If all measures are taken in accordance with the above, the full scores will remain permissible otherwise the scores under the above measures will remain permitted.

District rating of the rating agency.

A.A.R. details the overall self-assessment committee's assessment committee.

One hundred replies

Medical and health facilities and management.

(a) With regard to residential activities - if all residential entries are undergoing comprehensive medical examination by an authorized medical expert at least once a month, if self-owned or leased vehicle is arranged by an urgent medical institution to transport the patient to the nearest hospital, if the residential building is being maintained at a certain distance, if daily bathing, daily cleaning of the clothing worn by the entrant, and frequent cleanliness of the surrounding premises, good care of sanitation, etc.

2 गुण

1 गुण

2 गुण

If all measures are taken in accordance with the above, the full scores will remain permissible otherwise the scores under the above measures will remain permitted.

5 गुण

C:\Users\HP\Desktop\f.a. 1\Document 202302022065.2022subsidy policy drawing My 4057 self-assessment sample.1009

--- Source page 33 ---

Page 19 of 21

Department of Disability Welfare, Govt. Decree No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 65/D.C. 9, dated 16 Yoh, 2024.

Model of self-assessment of schools, workshops and orphanages for handicapped children

What is the significance of this?

If it is.

At least 2.4 points for all non-resident applicants from an accredited medical professional.

A comprehensive medical examination is conducted once a month.

A patient admitted to the facility for extreme medical reasons scores 2.5 points.

If a self-owned or rented vehicle is provided for transportation to a nearby hospital

If all measures are taken in accordance with the above, the full scores will remain permissible otherwise the scores under the above measures will remain permitted.

Scores out of 100.

Self-assessment of the organization

Evaluation of District Assessment Committee

The District Assessment Committee's response

Xlll

(a) Residential activities:

If you hold a certificate from the Department of Food Administration

3 गुण

If not 0 YO

If all residential entrants are provided with a sack and square meal according to a food type certified by the Food Inspector and if the food prepared in the residential activities is recorded daily by the Head of Activity in the Taste Register.

1 गुण

If not 0 points.

If you put a food plan in a place where everyone can see it,

8107sh$॥0109$at0e.c. 1\Document 202302022065.2022subsidy policy drawing My 4057 self-assessment AeA. docx

1 गुण

If not 0 points.

7 गुण

--- Source page 34 ---

Page 20 of 21

Department of Disability Welfare, Government Decision No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 65/D.C. 9, dated 16 Yoh, 2024 Form accompanied.

What is the significance of this?

Eat meat once a week, or one point.

0 points if you're not getting sugary food.

One point of garda in the diet of milk, eggs and fresh fruit.

If not 0 points.

If all precautions are taken as above, the full score will remain permissible. Otherwise, the points will remain permitted under the above measures scheme.

(b) For non-resident activities:

1) If you are serving lunch in non-residential activities, 03 points, if not

00 points allowed,

2) If there is a bus / auto / van service to bring boys and girls, 02 points,

If you don't have 00 points,

3) If you have received grants from the Union Government in the last 3 years, 02 points,

If not, 00 points.

~~

Scores out of 100.

Self-assessment of the organization

Evaluation of District Assessment Committee

District Assessment Committee

What is the answer?

Applicant's name, designation and signature

Name / designation and signature of members of the Assessment Committee

8107sh$॥0109$ then0di.k. 1009॥॥1202302022065.2022subsidy policy1contributed My 4057self-assessment AeA. docx

--- Source page 35 ---

Page 21 of 21

Department of Disability Welfare, Government Decree No.: EDD-2022 / Pr. No. 65/D.K. 1, dated 16 July 2024, attached form.

Model of self-assessment of schools, workshops and orphanages for handicapped children

The multiplication table is:

Total coefficient: Coefficient obtained from 100: Classification

A grade for 75 or higher.

Grade B with a score of 60 to 74.

Grade C for scores below 60

Date of inspection:

Time of inspection:

Signature of the inspection officer: designation:

Full address of the office:

8107sh$॥70109$th0e.c. 1\Document 202302022065.2022subsidy policy1content My 4057self-assessment AeA. docx