--- Source page 1 ---

To improve the delivery of benefits, financial aid and services in the State, the Direct Benefit Transfer (Maha DBT) system is the only State-level system.

Maharashtra government

Department of General Administration (MAT)

Governance Decree No. DBT-2021/Prc.61/C-1/39

Ministry, Mumbai - 400 032

Date: 30th of November, 2021

Reference: Governance Decree No. Saprivi-Matanas-2018/pr.kr.138/se-1/39 dated 12th October, 2018

The preface is as follows:

The Government of Maharashtra has a number of welfare schemes to provide benefits, financial assistance and services to the citizens of the state. Many of these schemes pay financial benefits to eligible applicants.

The above-mentioned Governance Decisions have laid down the procedures for the distribution of benefits through the MahdbT system. The Government has been considering a proposal for improvement in order to further simplify the existing procedures. Accordingly, the Orders are being issued for the improvement of the method of distribution of MahdbbT system as follows.

Government decision:-

The High-level Committee meeting chaired by the Chief Secretary on 27th September, 2021 has decided to amend this distribution methodology to facilitate the delivery of benefits, financial assistance and services in the State. The Board of Governors of the State Bank of India (SBI) has decided on the improvement of this distribution system in accordance with Section 8 and Section 9 of the above-mentioned Governance Decisions.

--- Source page 2 ---

Governance Decree No: DBT-2021/Prc.61/C-1/39

Departments should only use the Central Pool Account to distribute benefits to the beneficiaries through the MahdbT portal and this account should be linked to PEMS.

Paragraph 9. The distribution process will begin when the funds are deposited in the Central Pool Account under the Scheme of the Department and the amount of the dividend will be deposited through the Public Financial Management System (PEMS) in the accounts of the beneficiary's Aadhaar affiliate or authorised body/agency. The distribution of funds sent through the PFMS GS portal through the MHADBT portal will include the Certificate of Digital Service Authorization (Authentication) through the DSC.

It will be.

The Governing Decision has been made available on the Government of Maharashtra's website www.maharashtr.gov.in, computer code 2021113015362711.

By order and name of the Governor of Maharashtra.

Digitally signed by LAXMAN VISHWANATH

Laxman SAWANT DN: CN = LAXMAN VISHWANATH SAWANT, C = IN, S = Mah htra, O = GOVERNMENT OF Vishwanshat US aharatire, © GOVERMENT Ol INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEPARTMENT. SAWANT Date: 2021.11.30 16:07:27 +05'30"

to copy,

1. M. Secretary to the Governor

2. Ma. External Chief Secretary to the Chief Minister

3. Personal Secretary to all Ministers/Ministers of State

4. Chief Secretary Ma

5. All additional Chief Secretary / Principal Secretary / Secretary

6. Registrar, Ma. High Court (original side), Mumbai

7. Registrar, Ma. High Court (Appel side), Mumbai

8. Registrar, Deputy People's Commissioner, State of Maharashtra,

9. Secretary, Maharashtra Public Service Commission, Mumbai

10. Secretary, Maharashtra Legislative Assembly Secretariat, Mumbai General Accountant (A&E), - Mumbai

12. Auditor General (A&E), Maharashtra State, Nagpur

93. Mahalalekhapal (Accounting), Maharashtra State, Mumbai

14. Auditor General (Audit), Maharashtra State, Nagpur

15. Wage and Accounting Officer, Mumbai

16. Resident accounting officer, Mumbai

17. Inspector General of Police, Mumbai

Page 3 of 2

--- Source page 3 ---

Governance Decree No: DBT-2021/Prc.61/C-1/39

18. Police officers of all ages,

19. All departmental agencies

20. All municipal agencies.

21. All the District Governors

22. All Chief Executive Officers of District Council/ Municipal Corporation

23. All ministries

24. Head of all Departments and Head of Office, Maharashtra

25. Selective disorder.

Page 3 of 3

--- Source page 4 ---

Amendment to the Disbursement

process

of Maharashtra Direct

Benefit

Transfer

धात. Services

(Maha DBT) Portal as the single Pan

State portal for delivery of benefits,

subsidies

and

services

in

Maharashtra.

Government of Maharashtra

General Administration Department

Government Resolution No: DBT-2021/C.R.61/S.1/39

Mantralaya, Mumbai - 400 032

Date: 30 November 2021

Reference. :- Government Resolution No: (51) Matansam 2018/C.R.138/S.1/39,

Date: 12 October, 2018.

Background

The Government of Maharashtra has a number of welfare schemes to

provide benefits, financial assistance and services to the citizens of the state.

Many of these schemes offer financial benefits to eligible applicants. The

government has developed the MahaDBT portal for direct disbursement of

benefits to the Aadhaar linked bank accounts of the beneficiaries and it has been

gone live in October, 2018.

The process for disbursement of Direct Benefit has been prescribed vide

Government Resolution under reference. It was noticed that there is a need to

bring changes in the process of disbursement of benefits to make it more easier.

The proposal to make changes was under consideration. Accordingly, the

following orders are being issued regarding the changes in the disbursement

process of MahaDBT Portal.

Government Resolution ;-

For the disbursement of benefits, financial assistance and services in the

state. The Direct Benefit Transfer Portal (Maha DBT) has gone live in October,

2018. Process has been prescribed vide Government Resolution under reference

for the disbursement of benefits through Portal. As disbursement process needs

some changes to make it more convenient, the decision was taken to revise the

disbursement process in the meeting of the High power Committee held on

September 27, 2021under the chairmanship of Hon. Chief Secretary. As per the

decision, Para.no. 8 and 9 of the Govt. resolution under reference is amended as

follows;-

Para. 8-. After the amount is received by Drawing and Disbursing

Officer (DDO) in their scheme specific Bank account from Treasury, the

DDO shall transfer the said amount to the specific department scheme

"Central Pool Account” at the earliest. For this purpose, department

should open a separate "Central Pool Account” with State Bank of India

--- Source page 5 ---

Government Resolution No.: DBT-2021/C.R.61/S.1/39

for the respective scheme. This central pool account of the department will be used by respective department only for the use of benefit disbursement to beneficiary using MahaDBT portal and will be integrated with Public Finance Management System (PFMS). It is necessary that department to open this central pool account in State Bank of India as the SBI is integrated with MahaDBT portal and PFMS both.

Para 9. - Once the fund is credited to the department scheme "Central Pool Account", disbursement will be initiated, and the benefit shall be transferred to the respective beneficiary or authorized Institution/Agency's account through Public Financial Management System (PFMS). The payment file which is sent from the MahaDBT portal to PFMS shall contain authorization of respective DDO of scheme department in the form of his DSC authentication and the same file shall be sent to State Bank of India, so that the Bank can cross check authentication and can transfer the benefit to the beneficiary’s account.

This Government’ resolution is available on the website www.maharashtra.gov.in Reference no. for this is 202111301536272711. This order has been signed digitally.

By order and in the name of the Government of Maharashtra.

nA B WN =

6.

7.

Digitally signed by LAXMAN VISHWANATH SAWANT LAXMAN VISHWANATH CN = LAXMAN VISHWANATH SAWANT, C =

SAWANT IN, S = Maharashtra, O = GOVERNMENT OF

MAHARASHTRA, OU 0

ORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEPARTMENT

te: 2021.11 30 16:07:44 +05'30

(Laxman Sawant) Under Secretary (IT)

. Secretary to the Hon'ble Governor of Maharashtra.

. Additional Chief Secretary to Hon'ble Chief Minister.

. Personal Secretary to All Ministers / All Minister of State.

. Chief Secretary, Government of Maharashtra.

. Additional Chief Secretary / Principal Secretary / Secretary of All

Departments. Registrar, High Court (Original Side) Mumbai. Registrar, High Court (Appeal Side) Mumbai.

8. Registrar, Lok Ayukta, Up Lok Ayukta, Maharashtra State Mumbai

9. Secretary, Maharashtra Public Service Commission Mumbai.

10.Secretary, Maharashtra Vidhan Mandal Sachivalaya Mumbai.

11.Accountant General (A&E), Maharashtra Mumbai.

12.Accountant General (A&E), Maharashtra Nagpur.

13.Accountant General (Audit), Maharashtra Mumbai.

14.Accountant General (Audit), Maharashtra Nagpur.

Page 2 of 3

--- Source page 6 ---

Government Resolution No.: DBT-2021/C.R.61/S.1/39

15.Pay and Accounts Officer, Mumbai.

16. Residential Audit Officer, Mumbai.

17. Director General of Police, Mumbai.

18.All Commissioners of Police.

19.All Divisional Commissioners.

21.All Collectors,

22.All CEOs of Zilla Parishad / Municipalities,

23.All Departments of Mantralaya,

24.All Head of the Department and Head of the Offices of Govt. of

Maharashtra.

25.Select file, DIT, General Administration Department, Mantralaya.

Page 3 of 3