--- Source page 1 ---

Directorate of Information Technology, Ministry, Mumbai on ensuring positions for persons with disabilities in Group A to Group D categories under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016

Maharashtra government

Department of General Administration

Directorate of Information Technology

Governance Decree No: Matansang 2021/pr.kr.10/se-1/39

Madam Kama Road, Huttama Rajguru Square Ministry, Mumbai - 400 032

Date: February 18, 2021

वाचा-

1. Department of General Administration (Directorate of Information Technology) Government decision No. Matanshan/Nasthi

This is the first time that the Commission has made a decision on this matter.

2. Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016

3. Department of Social Justice and Special Assistance Government Circular No.

दि. 12.11.2020

Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of India, dated 04.01.2021

Notice

5. Department of Social Justice and Fears Assistance Government Decision No.

दि. 02.02.2021

The preface:

Provisions of the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Full Participation and Protection of Rights) Act, 1995

Information Technology by Government Decree dated 20th January, 2011 in accordance with the aforementioned references.

In the Directorate, appropriate positions for physically disabled persons in categories A and B.

It was decided.

The Central Government has issued a list of positions secured for the disabled by the Notification No. 4.1.2021 of the Ministry of Social Justice and Special Assistance under Article A.C.4 of the Government Decree that the same positions in the office under the Department's jurisdiction under the Sadhar List should be issued to ensure that the positions are the same for the Disabled. Accordingly, the Government was considering the proposal to establish suitable positions for disabled persons on the establishment of the Directorate of Information Technology.

Government decision-

Under Section 33 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016,

Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Govt. of India, New Delhi to recruit

Notice dated 04.01.2021 sets out the list of guaranteed positions for disabled persons.

As stated in it, the Union Government has recruited the host group "A" to ensure jobs for the disabled.

--- Source page 2 ---

Governance Decree No: Matansang 2021/Pr.kr.10/se-1/39

The Department of Social Justice and Special Assistance (DSSA) has given instructions to ensure that the positions in the State Government are for the disabled, even if they are different, in the list of posts whose duties and responsibilities, nature of work, prevailing pay grades are identical to those in State Government Service, as identified by the Central Government.

2. The Union Government has ensured that positions for persons with disabilities have been secured by the above-mentioned Notice dated 04.01.2021 for all posts in Group-A to Group-D categories on that list, as specified in Statement-A, in the Directorate of Information Technology and the Chamber of Science and Technology.

The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Govt. of India, New Delhi, has taken the decision.

Notice dated 04.01.2021 and Governance Decree of the Department of Social Justice dated 02.02.2021

They are being discharged as per the notices given.

4. Good Governance Decisions are available on the website of the Government of Maharashtra at www.maharashtr.gov.in.

The code is 202102181520475911 and is digitally signed.

It's being verified.

By order and name of the Governor of Maharashtra

Jyotsna Mukund tor

rth t, postalCode=400032, st=Mahi hi

2.5.4.20=4933ea9398d593ec3e965535e1a043d4fa180d8a3

Madekar Kakka Katha (Jyotsna M. Madekar) Our Secretary, Government of Maharashtra

1. Ma. Secretary to the Governor, Raj Bhavan, Malbar Hill, Mumbai

2. Ma. Chief Secretary, Ministry, Mumbai

3. Minister of State (Information Technology) Ministry, Mumbai

4. Ma. Leader of the Opposition, Legislative Council/Legislative Assembly Assembly Secretariat, Mumbai

5. Ma. Chief Secretary, Ministry, Mumbai

6. Deputy Chief Secretary (Service), Department of General Administration, Ministry, Mumbai

7. Principal Secretary, Department of Social Justice and Special Assistance, Ministry, Mumbai

8. Principal Secretary, (Information Technology), Department of General Administration, Ministry, Mumbai

9. Commissioner, Disability Welfare, Commission, Pune,

10.Mahalle Khapal (Accounting and Licensure/Account examination), Maharashtra-1, Mumbai

11. Mahalekhapal (Accounting and Licensure/Account examination), Maharashtra-2, Nagpur

12. Director/Co-Secretary, (Information Technology) Department of General Administration, Ministry, Mumbai

13. Selection.

Page 2 of 6

--- Source page 3 ---

Governance Decree No: Matansang 2021/Pr.kr.10/se-1/39

Chamber of Information Technology and Science and Technology Government Decision No.2021/PROC 10/S-1/39,

The date is 18.02.2021

Accompanying statement - A

(a) to (5) above

A. Duties and Responsibilities of the Head of Department of Physical Disabilities

No. for the qualification category

What is the meaning of life?

S,BN,MF a) 8,-4 Analyses all or part of a workflow chart or diagram

RW B) D,HH representing scientific and business problem by applying

c)OA,OL,BL, | knowledge of computer capabilities, subject matter, algebra

OAL,BA, and symbolic logic to develop sequence of programme

CP, LC, steps. Confers with representative’s supervisors and of

Dw, AAV | departments resolve questions of programme intent, output

d) SLD,MI requirements input data modification and inclusion of

8) MD involving

internal checks and controls. Writes detailed logical flow chart in symbolic form to represent work order of data to be processed by computer system and to describe input, output and arithmetic and logical operations involved. Converts detailed logical flow chart to language process able by computer devises sample input data to provide test of programme adequacy. Prepares block diagrams to specify equipment programme on computer, using actual or sample input data. Corrects programme crrors by such methods as altering programme steps and sequence. Prepares written instruction (run book) to guide operating personnel during production runs. Analyses, reviews and_ rewrites programmes to increase operating efficiency or adapt to new requirements. Compiles documentation of development and programme subsequent revision. May specialize in writing programmes for one make and type of computer. Records type and nature of data processed; type of machine in which experienced; reports reviews published and review published.

Page 3 out of 6

--- Source page 4 ---

Governance Decree No: Matansang 2021/Pr.kr.10/se-1/39

Younger scientists

S,BN,MF » RW

a) B,LV

b) DJ, HH

c) OA,OL,BL, OAL,BA, CP,LC, Dw, AAV

d) SLD,MI

8) MD involving

(a) to (d) above

Analyses all or part of work flow chart or diagram representing scientific and business problem by applying knowledge of computer capabilities, subject matter, algebra and symbolic logic to develop sequence of programme steps. Confers with representative’s supervisors and of departments resolve questions of programme intent, output requirements input data modification and inclusion of internal checks and controls. Writes detailed logical flow chart in symbolic form to represent work order of data to be processed by computer system and to describe input, output and arithmetic and logical operations involved. Converts detailed logical flow chart to language process able by computer devises sample input data to provide test of programme adequacy. Prepares block diagrams to specify equipment programme on computer, using actual or sample input data. Corrects programme crrors by such methods as altering programme steps and sequence. Prepares written instruction (run book) to guide operating personnel during production runs. Analyses, reviews and_ rewrites programmes to increase operating efficiency or adapt to new requirements. Compiles documentation of development and programme subsequent revision. May specialize in writing programmes for one make and type of computer. Records type and nature of data processed; type of machine in which experienced; reports reviews published and review published.

Room officer (technical)

S,ST,W, BN,RW, SE,H,C

a) B, LV

b) D, HH

c) OL, CP, LC, Dw, AAV

d) SLD, MI

8) MD involving

(a) to (d) above

To use and manage enterprise-based information and communication systems to support various business activities for efficiency development and productivity development. To coordinate and manage information technology services, services launched by departments and the Internet. To provide information technology support room facilities, and to ensure compliance with complaint management processes and efficient complaint resolution. To update and replace the server/network infrastructure and facilities of the user's computer system with state-of-the-art technology from time to time. To use active tools to regularly manage management databases to resolve defects knowingly. To implement, regulate and guide information technology security policies.

Page 4 out of 6

--- Source page 5 ---

Governance Decree No: Matansang 2021/Pr.kr.10/se-1/39

Guidance. Ensuring the efficient functioning of video and voice e.g. from wide area networks, video conferencing, Internet protocols. Installing and operating, maintaining and managing IT security systems. Developing, adapting and updating IT systems Var and applications. Establishing verification and feedback systems to ensure the reliability and security of information and communication and security system.

4 Assistants 5,5,7, a) B, LV, LV for the development and productivity development of various business functions (technology, BN,RW, 70, HH support, use enterprise-based information and communication systems and manage SE,H,C,C)OL,CP,LC. Information technology services, services launched by departments and the Internet, Dw, AAV. Coordinate and manage IT support room facilities, d) SLD, MI and operational complaint management processes and ensure compliance with them, and 8 MD involving HH's performance. Developing, adapting and updating information technology systems Var and applications. Establishing verification and feedback systems to ensure the reliability and security of information and communication and security systems. 5 Soldiers S,ST,w,a) B, LV office opening, office tables, office chairs dusting, office BN,L,b) D, HH files, mail delivery, water supply to officials Senior Officers KC, PP, c) OL, OAL, CP, DATA, etc.

(a) to (d) above

Page 5 out of 6

--- Source page 6 ---

Governance Decree No: Matansang 2021/Pr.kr.10/se-1/39

Abbreviations:

Sr. | Abbreviation Long Form Sr. | Abbreviation Long Form

Dwarfism

Acid Attack Victim

Autism Spectrum

Disorder (M-Mild)

Hearing Handicapped Intellectual Disability

Special Learning

Disability

| 6 | OAL One Arm and One Leg 14 | MI Mental 1111655

7 | CP | Cerebral Palsy 15 | MD Multiple Disabilities

| 8 | LC Leprosy Cured

Abbreviations:

Sr. | Abbreviation Long Form Sr. | Abbreviation Long Form

No. No.

1 Ss Sitting 7 [PP ssid Pilling & Pushing |

2 | ST Standing | 8 | MF Manipulation by Fingers |

3 | W walking | 9 | SE Seeing |

॥॥1:॥॥ | Bending 10 | H Hearing |

5 | 1, Lifting 11 | (_ communication |

Page 6 of 6