--- Source page 1 ---

AIST Government appointed body to assist and advise in the implementation of IT projects.

Maharashtra government

Department of General Administration

Information Technology and Directorate

Government Certificate number: 080/4/2014 - O/O Directorate of Information Technology

Ministry (Extension), Mumbai-400 032

Date: 19th of March, 2021

Reference: (1) Directorate of Information Technology Governance Decisions No.

This is the first time that I've ever heard of this kind of thing.

2) Directorate of Information Technology Governance Decisions No.

This is the first time that I've ever heard of this kind of thing.

The preamble is:

A panel of six advisory bodies has been constituted by the VST Government to assist and advise on the implementation of IT projects in the various departments of the Government in accordance with the prescribed procedure and detailed guidelines have been issued in accordance with Governance Decree No.-080/4/2014 O/O Ade, dated 20/03/2018 and Jasan Decree No.-080/4/2014 0/0/0 dated 09/05/2019.

Government Clearance Sheet: A.C. Government Decisions. Amended provisions Paragraphs Paragraphs Paragraphs Paragraphs No.

--- Source page 2 ---

Government Certificate number: Shaprivi-Matanam 080/4/2014 - 0/0 Directorate of Information Technology

Provisions in Basic Government Decisions

“The Selected Agency should come up with major milestones of the project and need to clearly devise the measurable outcomes from the project duly approved by the | Department/purchaser, based on which periodic review (Quarterly/Mid-term review depending upon the duration of the project) will happen with the Department availing the consultancy service. The selected agency needs to submit Fortnightly and regular status report to the department and DIT”

Amended provisions

“The Selected Agency should come up with major milestones of the project and need to clearly devise the measurable outcomes from the project duly

approved by the Department/purchaser, based on which periodic review (Quarterly/Mid-term review

depending upon the duration of the project) will happen with the Department availing the consultancy service. The selected agency needs to — submit Fortnightly and regular status report to the ACS/PS/Secretary of the concern Department continuation of the consultant shall be decide by the concerned department on the basis of the monthly/quarterly performance of the consultant”.

3

Governance

In the decision

Paragraph 9 Point No. C Paragraph 9 Point No. D

“The Project Manager of the Selected Agency — should regularly (Monthly) and timely brief DIT about the progress and status of the project so that best use of existing infrastructure and inputs could be made in the interest of the project”

“The Project Manager of the Selected Agency should regularly (Monthly) and timely brief the ACS/PS/Secretary of the

concerned Department about the progress and status of the project so that best use of existing infrastructure and inputs could be made in the interest of the project”

2. Each project related to information technology shall be assigned by the relevant department.

IT Solutions and Final Report to be prepared by Consultants

The relevant department should submit it to the Information Technology Department.

The Government of Maharashtra (Maharashtra) has provided the Government of Maharashtra (Maharashtra) Certificate with computer code 202103191753279311.

On the Internet

It's coming.

By order and name of the Governor of Maharashtra.

to copy,

1) Ma. Secretary to the Governor,

Dilip Prabhakar Deshmukh =

(Laughter)

Our Secretary, Government of Maharashtra

Page 3 of 2

--- Source page 3 ---

Government Certificate number: Shaprivi-Matanam 080/4/2014 - 0/0 Directorate of Information Technology

Deputy Chief Secretary to the Chief Minister,

Private Secretary to all Ministers,

Private Secretary to the Chief Secretary,

All other than Chief Secretary/ Principal Secretary/Secretary,

* Manager, Main Branch, Mumbai High Court, Mumbai

* Manager, Appeal Branch, Mumbai High Court, Mumbai

* Manager, Public Health and Deputy People's Commissioner, Maharashtra State, Mumbai

* Secretary, Maharashtra Public Service Commission, Mumbai

10) * Principal Secretary, Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, Secretariat, Mumbai

11) Auditor General 9/2 Accounting and Licensing, Maharashtra, Mumbai

12) Auditor General 1/2 Accounting and Licensing, Maharashtra, Nagpur

Accounting and Licensing, Maharashtra, Mumbai

14) Mahakhapal 1/2 Accounting and Licensing, Maharashtra, Nagpur

15) Administrator and Accountant, Mumbai

16) Residential Audit Officer, Mumbai

17) Auditor, Nagpur, Maharashtra

18) Auditor, Mumbai, Maharashtra

19) Director General of Police, Mumbai, Maharashtra State

20) All Police Commissioners, Maharashtra State

21) All District Commissioners, State of Maharashtra,

22) All Municipal Commissioners, Maharashtra State,

23) All District Governors, Maharashtra State)

AD

AN

08

~~ — — — ष्य“ — — ~—

c ae

an

S

(3

vo

) ) ) ) ) ) ) )

28) Ud Chief Executive Officer, District Council / Municipality

24) All Ministries

26) All regional offices/corporations under the control of all Ministries

27 Selected Nasthi, Sapravi/Ka-39

Page 3 of 3