--- Source page 1 ---

In the name of former Prime Minister of India, Shri Rajiv Gandhi, awards and incentives to best performing institutions in the field of Information Technology in the state of Maharashtra.

Maharashtra government

Department of General Administration (information technology)

Governance Decree No: Matansang 2021/Pr.kr.42/S-2/39

Madam Kama Road, Huttama Rajguru Square Ministry, Mumbai - 400 032

Date: 10th August, 2021

The preamble is:

Meeting chaired by the Minister of State (Information Technology) on 07th July 2021 on awards and incentives to best performing institutions in the field of Information Technology in Maharashtra State

The use of science and technology for the social and economic development of India is at the heart of modernisation. Shri Rajiv Gandhi emphasized the dissemination of science and information technology and its effective use for national development.

Following the decision of the aforementioned meeting, the Government was considering awarding incentives to the best performing institutions in the field of Information Technology in Maharashtra in the name of former Prime Minister of India, Shri Rajiv Gandhi.

Government decision-

The Maharashtra Information and Technology Corporation, Mumbai (MHAIT) has been selected to propose this award in a non-financial format through the Government's General Administration Department, Information Technology Subdivision, in the name of former Prime Minister, Shri Rajiv Gandhi, to reward and encourage outstanding institutions in the field of Information Technology in the State of Maharashtra.

1) The awards will be announced on 20th August 2021 of the current year. The selection criteria and selection of entities should be finalized by Maharashtra Information and Technology Corporation (MHAIT) before 30th October 2029.

2) Awarded annually on 20th August on the occasion of Swami Rajiv Gandhi Memorial Day from next year.

Give it to me.

Page 2 of 1

--- Source page 2 ---

Governance Decree No: Matansang 2021/Pr.kr.42/S-2/39

The decision of Sadhar Jasan has been made available on the Government of Maharashtra's website, www.maharashtra.gov.in, code 202108101606213911.

DILIP PRABHAKAR 0-4 DESHMUKH

(D.P. Deshmukh) Our Secretary, Government of Maharashtra

1. Ma. Secretary to the Governor, Raj Bhavan, Malbar Hill, Mumbai

2. Ma. Chief Secretary, Ministry, Mumbai

3. Minister of State (Information Technology) Ministry, Mumbai

4. Ma. Leader of the Opposition, Legislative Council/Legislative Assembly Assembly Secretariat, Mumbai

5. Ma. Chief Secretary, Ministry, Mumbai

6. Deputy Chief Secretary (Service), Department of General Administration, Ministry, Mumbai

7. Principal Secretary, Department of Social Justice and Special Assistance, Ministry, Mumbai

8. Principal Secretary, (Information Technology), Department of General Administration, Ministry, Mumbai

9. All Ministry Departments, Ministries, Mumbai

10.Mahalle Khapal (Accounting and Licensing/Accounting Exam), Maharashtra-1, Mumbai

11. Mahalekhapal (Accounting and Licensing/Accounting Exam), Maharashtra-2, Nagpur

12. Managing Director, Maharashtra Information and Technology Corporation (MHAIT), APJH House, KC.

Near the college, Mumbai 400 020.

13. Chamber Officer, Rajiv Gandhi Science and Technology Commission, Department of General Administration, Mumbai - 32

14. Selection.

Page 2 of 2