--- Source page 1 ---

Maharashtra on the demolition of the Unified Citizen Data Hub for digitization of government services

Maharashtra government

Department of General Administration (information technology),

Governance Decree No: Matansang-11088/ Procedure 9/2021

Ministry, Mumbai-400032.

Date: 04/02/2022

Reference: (1) High Authority Committee at its meeting on 27th September 2021

Project in principle: Approval

2) The project will be presented at the Cabinet meeting on 23rd December 2021.

Acceptance

The preamble is:

Currently, for the planning and implementation of departmental schemes, a new survey is required to create a database of beneficiaries each time.

Various schemes are implemented by the Government and declared to help the citizens in the event of natural disasters. However, the implementation of these schemes has to face major challenges such as identifying eligible beneficiaries, providing assistance to them through the DBT system.

In view of the experience of various schemes successfully implemented by the Department of Information Technology across various departments and the difficulties encountered in assisting citizens during natural disasters, the implementation of Maharashtra Unified Citizen Data for Digital Delivery of Benefits and Services will be under consideration by the Government, taking into account the experience of various schemes successfully implemented by the Department of Information Technology across several departments.

Government decision:-

1. Maharashtra Unified Citizens Data for Digital Delivery of Benefits and Services

The Government has allocated Rs 294.02 crore (excluding GST) to implement the scheme.

--- Source page 2 ---

Government Decision No: Matansang-11088/ Procedure 9/2021

Administrative approvals and scope, selection procedures and deadlines for project implementation are being approved.

The project will be implemented by Maharashtra Information Technology Corporation Limited (MHAIT) under the supervision and control of the Department of Information Technology.

Information: GAS (IT) Act 2000 (amended 2008), Aadhaar (financial and other grants)

Targeted Distribution, Benefits and Services, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016, Maharashtra Public

Related to Right to Services Act 2015 and Maharashtra's e-Governance Policy 2011

According to the Articles, the Department of Information Technology is the custodian of citizens' data.

With this in mind, Shared Standard Citizen Database - Maharashtra Unified Citizen Data Hub

The Department of Information Technology is being authorized to produce it.

All departments and other government agencies in the state will immediately provide the computerized information of citizens available to them to the Department of Information Technology to create a common standard citizen database for the entire state. The Department of Information Technology will create a common standard citizen database, and will be the custodian of the archives in Maharashtra Unified Citizen Data Hub.

Provisions necessary for the implementation of the Sadar Scheme are included in the E-Governance Policy.

The Department of Information Technology will have the power to make provisions in the Act if needed in the future.

With the creation of the Unified Citizen Data Hub, the new system will make it mandatory for all departments of the state to onboard their individual beneficiary schemes.

After the creation of the Unified Citizen Data Hub, all individual beneficiary schemes will be unified.

Changes to Citizens' Data in the Database of Departments/Other Government Institutions will be automatically transferred to the Maharashtra Unified Citizens' Data Hub.

A Select Committee shall be constituted under the chairmanship of the Secretary-General.

The Committee will monitor and review the progress of Data Access, the implementation and benefits of services through the system, as well as resolve issues related to the implementation of the project etc.

Page 3 of 2

--- Source page 3 ---

Government Decision No: Matansang-11088/ Procedure 9/2021

The Government of Maharashtra has made a decision on the website www.maharashtra.gov.in.

It has been made available under code 202202042136207511.

Certified by digital signature.

By order and on behalf of the Governor of Maharashtra,

MUKESH PUNDLIKRAO 4

SOMKUWAR

(Mukesh Somkun) Our Secretary, Government of Maharashtra

Ma. Principal Secretary to the Governor, Raj Bhavan, Malbar Hill, Mumbai,

Ma. Chief Minister, State of Maharashtra, Ministry, Mumbai

Secretary to Deputy Chief Minister, Ministry, Mumbai

Private Secretary to all Ministers, Ministry, Mumbai

Ma. Speaker, Secretary of Maharashtra Legislative Council, Legislative Assembly, Mumbai Ma. Speaker, Secretary of Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, Legislative Assembly, Mumbai

Ma. Opposition Leader, Private Secretary of Maharashtra Legislative Council, Legislative Assembly, Mumbai. Ma. Opposition Leader, Private Secretary of Maharashtra Assembly, Legislative Assembly, Mumbai 9.

All M. Assembly/Legislative Council members

10.All Ministry departments

11. Mahalle Khapal (Accounting), Maharashtra 1/2 Mumbai/Nagpur,

12.All sectoral agencies

13.All the District Magistrates

14. Residential and Information Technology departments

Page 3 of 3