--- Source page 1 ---

Establishment of Working Group to launch and implement 57 services in the State.

Maharashtra government

Department of Information Technology (DIT)

Governance Decree No.: Matansang-11090/Prc.2/2020

Ministry, Mumbai-400032

Date: 27th March, 2023

The preamble -

Infrastructure for 57 telecommunications services essential for the overall development of the State

A robust network of facilities needs to be set up in the state.

The Central Government has amended the Telecommunications Policy announced by the notification.

Notice was issued on 17.08.2022 under the Economic, Social and

Given the ever-growing role of 57 network connectivity in scientific fields, Maharashtra

State to develop and accelerate guidelines for fast and smooth delivery of 57 services

Implementation has become important, which is why the reforms made by the Central Government in telecommunications policy have been a major step forward.

To align the State's telecommunications policy, infrastructure to be set up for telecommunications services.

The Task Force has been set up to ensure effective implementation of facilities and telecommunications policy.

The matter of setting up the committee was under consideration of the government.

Government decision:

The Task Force Committee, composed of members of the relevant departments, is being set up to deal with the right to authorise optical fiber cable lines for the installation of telecommunications infrastructure and the right to authorise the installation of mobile towers.

There's a member of the A.C.A. committee.

Secretary / Principal Secretary / Deputy Chief Secretary, Information Technology. Members

There are two secretaries/secretaries-general/secretaries-general, department of urban development-1.

There are three secretaries/secretaries-general/secretaries-general, department of urban development-2.

There are four secretaries/secretaries-general/secretaries-general, rural development department. Members.

5 Secretary / Principal Secretary / Deputy Principal Secretary, member of Public Works

The department.

6 Secretary / Principal Secretary / Deputy Principal Secretary, Industry, Energy and Labour Member

The Department of Industry.

9 Secretary / Principal Secretary / Deputy Principal Secretary, Industry, Energy and Labour Member

The Department of Energy.

The Commissioner, Municipality of Mumbai. Members are invited.

Licensed Swiss area, telecommunications department, representative.

The Managing Director, General Discussion. Members are invited.

Representatives of the COAI and the DIPA.

Director, member of the Directorate of Information Technology Secretary

--- Source page 2 ---

Government Decision No: Matansang-11090/Prc.2/2020

The Task Force Committee is composed of Red officers from the Task Force.

The Chairman of the Committee shall remain.

0र.

03.

The scope and functions of the Task Force Committee shall be as follows:-

Task Force to build infrastructure for 57 services in the state

The Committee shall issue guidelines and recommendations from time to time.

Working Group (Task Force Committee) on infrastructure issues related to 57 services

It will review them from time to time and try to resolve them.

It will also act as an enforcement monitoring authority.

57 Task Force Committees will be actively involved in the development of guidelines on the use of street furniture owned by State Governments/Urban Local Self-Government Agencies/Mahdiskom for the establishment of Small Cells to be set up for commencement of service.

The Task Force Committee shall periodically review pending applications for the right of way and telecommunications tower construction on the Telecommunications Portal. The Task Force Committee may call the relevant authority or district for applications pending for a long period of time and on a large scale, as well as inquire about the reasons. The Task Force Committee shall periodically submit a report to the State Broadband Committee to keep the member committee informed of the latest developments and progress of implementation of Section 57 in the State.

The Government of Maharashtra has taken the decision on the website www.maharshtra.gov.in.

The code is 202303301831230311.

Certified by digital signature.

A copy,

Cc AN AD -9

0 -84

10,

By order and name of Governor of Maharashtra. Digitally signed by ROSHANI DINESH KADAM PATIL

Date: 2023.03.30 18:37:30 +05'30'

Deputy Secretary, Department of General Administration, (Mat)

Chief Secretary, Ministry.

Deputy Chief Secretary, Department of Urban Development-1, Ministry.

Deputy Chief Secretary, Department of Rural Development, Ministry.

Deputy Chief Secretary, Department of Industry, Ministry

Deputy Chief Secretary, Department of Public Works, Ministry, Principal Secretary, Ministry of Information Technology.

Principal Secretary, Department of Urban Development-2, Ministry.

Principal Secretary, Department of Energy, Ministry.

Commissioner, Municipality of Brihanmumbai.

Chief Engineer, Mahdiskom

Page 3 of 2

--- Source page 3 ---

Government Decision No: Matansang-11090/Prc.2/2020

11. Appointed Officers of DOT, LSA

12. Representative of the Association of Cellular Operators of India.

13. Representative of the Digital Infrastructure Providers Association.

14. Selective disorder.

Page 3 of 3