--- Source page 1 ---

Regarding Empanelment of Consultants for IT Projects in Government of Maharashtra

Government of Maharashtra

Directorate of Information Technology

Government Resolution No: GAD-IT 080/4/2014-0/O DIRECTORATE OF IT-DIT (MH)

Mantralaya, Mumbai — 400 032

Date: 05"" October, 2023

Reference:

1. Government Resolution - GAD-IT 080/4/2014-O0/O DIRECTORATE OF IT-DIT (MH)

dated 20" March, 2018

2. Government Resolution - GAD — IT 080/4/2014-0/O Directorate of IT-DIT (MH) dated

9th May, 2019

3. Government Circular - GAD — IT 080/4/2014-O/O Directorate of IT-DIT (MH) dated

24th April, 2023

Introduction:

Government of Maharashtra vide above referenced Government Resolutions and Government

Circulars had empaneled IT Consultancy firms for a period of 5 Years (Five Years). This empanelment

expired on 19th September 2023. Accordingly, RFP for new empanelment of consultants was

approved by the High Power Committee (HPC) and bids were invited from reputed consultancy firms

for empanelment for a period of Five (5) years to work with the state government in providing

consultancy services for IT projects activities.

Government Resolution:

As per evaluation of the Tender following companies have been qualified and are empaneled with Government of Maharashtra for a period of five years i.e. from 20" September 2023 to 19" September 2028 to provide consultancy services for e-Governance (IT Projects) activities in Maharashtra. Any department of Government of Maharashtra or the allied offices under it / corporations / boards (independent bodies) etc. can avail the consultancy services from these firms following the process laid out in this GR.

I. List of empaneled Firms: The following firms have been empaneled:

1. M/s Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP

M/s Ernst & Young LLP

M/s Grant Thornton Bharat LLP

M/s KPMG Advisory Services Pvt Ltd

M/s PricewaterhouseCoopers Pvt Ltd

. M/s Primus Partners Pvt Ltd

The contact details of the above firms are provided in Annexure 1.

Au WN

॥. Rates applicable: The rates for different categories of consultants as fixed by Government of Maharashtra for the above firms are given below:

Category Years of Experience Rate in INR — Per Month Per

Person (Excluding Taxes)

| Associate Consultant > 2 Years to <= 5 years 285,000 |

| Consultant > 5 Years to < = 9 years 345,000 |

| Senior Consultant > 9 Years to < = 13 years 385,000 |

| Principal Consultant > 13 years 454,000 |

--- Source page 2 ---

Government Resolution No.: GAD-IT 080/4/2014-0/0 DIRECTORATE OF IT-DIT (MH)

Note:

a)

The above rates will apply for all work orders issued from the date of issue of this GR.

b)

The above rates are excluding of Govt. taxes and OPE (Out of Pocket Expenses). The out of

pocket expenses (OPE) like Travel, boarding, lodging incurred by the deployed consultant for

the purpose of official work authorized by the department/purchaser shall be reimbursed by

the Purchaser as per Policy provided in Annexure 2. However, Expenses incurred on

stationary, printouts etc. will be reimbursed on actuals by the department on producing

necessary bills/supporting documents and on prior approval by the department with a cap

of 5% on the total monthly bill payment to the selected agency.

c)

DIT shall operationalize an IT system (Portal) to simplify the process of selection of

Consulting Agencies by departments. Once this Portal is operationalized, the Departments

are requested to use this Portal for posting Consultant requirements and provide inputs

regarding the performance of the Consultants. The Consultants will be required to update

details of the projects in this portal. Details of this portal are elaborated in Annexure 3.

d)

The Service Levels expected to be provided by the empaneled firms and the associated

Penalties in case of default are elaborated in Annexure 4.

9)

The rates mentioned above are valid for the 1* year and thereafter DIT reserves the rights to

increase the price after due evaluation and approval from the HPC.

f)

Each consultant deployed on the project shall be entitled for 2 days of leave in a month

subject to upper limit of 24 in a year. Also, apart from leave each deployed consultant would

be eligible for Compensatory off on approval from the department. Compensatory off is off

taken on a working day for work done on government holiday/public holiday.

Hl.

Applicability of this GR: This GR is applicable only for IT & e-Governance projects.

IV.

Type of Work under this GR and Consultant Experience: Types of Work that can be carried out

under this GR and the Experience required for the Consultant is provided below.

30 -.No

Type of

Indicative Work Description

Experience

Work

Business

Study of business processes

e Experience in IT and

Process

Organization

structure

of

government

e-Governance

Reengineeri

departments

Educational

ng

Preparation of As-ls Process maps

background -

Identification

and analysis of gaps and

Engineering (B.E /

proposing To-Be processes for improved and

B.Tech /M.E /

efficient delivery of G2G, G2B and G2C

M.Tech) in

services

IT/Computer

Science/ Electronics

Strategy

Consultancy for

strategic

planning and

Manageme

management

during

any/all

phases

of

/

Telecommunication

nt

assessment/planning/implementation/contin

uo us strategy for implementation and rollout

OR MCA

of large/medium/small Government service

Prior project

delivery project

experience is

Feasibility study/policy assessment/impact

required for all

assessment/IT

roadmap/strategy plan

for

designations.

Investment attraction and facilitation, Trade

Especially for

promotion, Startup promotion, Ease of doing

DPR/RFP

business and living, Industrial development

preparation the

etc.

Consulting resources

Page 2 of 15

--- Source page 3 ---

Government Resolution No.: GAD-IT 080/4/2014-0/0 DIRECTORATE OF IT-DIT (MH) Eee e Cutting edge technologies available and their are expected to have application to the e-Governance domain domain experience 3. DPR e Preparation of Detailed Project Report (DPR) in the type of preparation e Business model DPR/RFP that they and Project e Risk analysis are tasked to Design e Stakeholder analysis (including expected prepare benefits for the Government entity) e = Financial Estimate e Architectural Design of the various components of the System e Interoperability Design of System — including ensuring that the proposed system is able to provide and / or receive data from other Systems of GoM and Gol. Technical Consultancy during any/all phases of the project on activities the following activities in simple/complex for System | heterogeneous systems environments for Design large/medium/small projects leading to enablement /Rollout / | of IT enabled service delivery (G2G/G2B/G2C) System Departments/organizations/institutions: upgrade / | 1) Design and architecture for Hardware/Software Performanc | requirements e 2) Server requirements (Compute, Storage, Improveme | Virtualization, deployment etc.) nt 3) Performance improvements 4) Networking/LAN/WAN design 5. RFP Consultancy during any/ all phases of Bid Process e Experience in IT and preparation | Management including: e-Governance & Bid e Preparation of Expression of Interest | e Educational Process (Eol)/Request For Proposal (RFP)/ Request background - Manageme For Quote (RFQ) Engineering (B.E / nt e Requirement gathering/ functional B.Tech / M.E / specifications/ implementation timelines/ M.Tech) in defining levels/ payment terms/ contract IT/Computer finalization / costing model etc.) Science/ Electronics e Pre-bid meetings / e Evaluation Qualification - Telecommunication (Technical/Financial) OR MCA e Prepare and review of NDA, Agreements & | 0 Prior project Contracts, contract drafting & validation etc. experience is e Knowledge of IT acts, IT certifications & required for related matters etc. Associate Consultant Application e To provide consultancy support in any/all and above. Rollout, phases of the project viz initiation, planning, | * Especially for Project executing, transitioning while managing DPR/RFP Manageme scope, time, risk etc. before, during and after preparation the nt implementation of any Government service Consulting resources delivery project. are expected to have e Testing of solutions/systems related to domain experience hardware and Software. in the type of e Review of compliance to Government of DPR/RFP that they Page 3 of 15

--- Source page 4 ---

Government Resolution No.: GAD-IT 080/4/2014-0/0 DIRECTORATE OF IT-DIT (MH) eee India (Gol)/Government of Maharashtra are tasked to (GoM) norms including NeSDA, GIGW, Open prepare Data policy, Open API policy etc. e The consulting e Status reporting and monitoring resource should be e Issue tracking and resolution well conversant with e Service Level Agreement (SLA) monitoring & IT acts IT management certifications & e Hand-holding all e-Governance related related matters activities of the department e Vendor management e = Third Party Audit e Change Management e Capacity augmentation for the department e Knowledge of IT acts, IT certifications & related Matters 7. System e Review of compliance to Government of Audit, India (Gol)/Government of Maharashtra Performanc (GoM) norms including NeSDA, GIGW, Open e Audit, Data policy, Open API policy etc. Third e Project Specific Audit, Onsite Audit, Field Party Audit Audit, SLA compliance audit, Contract (TPA) compliance audit etc. e To review and audit various controls like (but not limited to) Organizational Controls (segregation of duties, access control policies and their implementation etc.), Data Center and Network Operations Controls, Hardware & Software Acquisition and Maintenance Controls, Access Controls (from technology perspective including review of audit trails), Application System control (Acquisition, Development, and Maintenance), Data related Controls, Output and Error Controls etc. e Submission of Audit report and recommendations e Follow-up review/audit as per frequency and period defined by the concerned Department at the time of awarding the project. IT Shall include (but not limited to) review of existing Security/Cy | security policy and guidelines including review of its ber Audit implementation, review of compliance to Government of India (Gol)/Government 00 Maharashtra (GoM) norms, various other security norms, vulnerability assessments, network vulnerability assessments, operating system and application security assessments, access controls assessment etc. Finance & e Provide consultancy during any/all phases of | e Relevant Experience Accounts planning/ operations for Government entity | e CAis preferable on matters related to finance and accounts | e MBA preferable Page 4 of 15

--- Source page 5 ---

Government Resolution No.: GAD-IT 080/4/2014-0/0 DIRECTORATE OF IT-DIT (MH) EEE which may include accounting processes, advisory, analysis, chart of Accounts and audits etc. e Oversee and Manage the financial systems and budgets e Organize and maintain accurate accounting standards e Analyze financial data and prepare financial statements e Regular monitoring of investments and finances and reporting to senior management e Reviewing the systems and analyzing risk; e Advising on financial performance of projects, areas of business improvement etc.; V. Selection of Consultancy Firm - The Departments may opt one of the following methods mentioned below, while selecting consultants for their projects: 1. Quotation based (also called as Fixed Price based / Deliverable based) Consultancy/Advisory project 2. Man month rate based Consultancy/Advisory project The details of these two selection methodologies are as follows: 1. Quotation based (Fixed Priced / Deliverable based) Consultancy/Advisory project:

- The Department can choose to engage one of the Empaneled Agencies on quotation based fixed price for specific projects where the scope is well defined. In such projects, the scope is well defined, the deliverable is fixed and timeline is also fixed.

- For such Fixed Price / delivery-based project (e.g. DPR preparation, policy formulation, Impact Assessment Study, Bid Management etc.),

o Department shall provide: =" The scope of work =" The expected time-period to complete the project. =" The deliverable and payment milestones =" The method of selection - QCBS (Quality and Cost Based Selection) method providing weightage to the Technical proposal and Cost proposal. o The empaneled agencies will submit: =" Technical Proposal - Technical proposal that demonstrates the empaneled agencies' plan and ability to effectively complete the work. =" Cost Proposal - 'Firm price' to complete the scope of work within the given timeline. Using the method of selection, the department will select the consultant for the project.

- In these types of project requirements, the Empanelled Agencies may decide the number and designation of resources required to execute the scope of work within the agreed timeline. The financial proposals shall be based on the prevailing empanelment rates.

Page 5 of 15

--- Source page 6 ---

Government Resolution No.: GAD-IT 080/4/2014-0/0 DIRECTORATE OF IT-DIT (MH)

Eee

- Inthese types of project requirements, the Departments will need to specify the mode / medium by which the proposals shall be submitted to Department.

- The Department may choose the qualified proposals and call for presentations, if necessary.

- The Department shall make the final decision on the Consultant Agency that is best suited to execute the project and issue the work order.

- The Payment terms and Acceptance criteria will be based on:

o Successful completion of a delivery milestone & o Payment milestone defined against the specific delivery milestone.

- Incase the project is delayed beyond the timeframe mentioned in the scope of work due to issues beyond the control of the selected agency, or in case the scope has changed or if the deliverable has changed, then the Department may choose to extend the engagement with the selected agency by way of executing a "Change Order".

2. Man-month based consultancy/advisory project

- In case the Department decides to choose the Consultants on 'man-month rate’, the following process shall be followed:

o Departments will finalize the scope of work for consultancy.

o Thereafter departments shall circulate the scope of work among Empanelled Agencies and call for presentation.

o The Empanelled Agencies shall provide the presentation and submit the CVs (as per format provided in annexure 5) of the proposed resources before the Department.

o This presentation from the Empanelled Agencies shall necessarily contain — Approach, Methodology and Qualification of the resources for the scope of work

o Based on presentation, the Empanelled Agencies understanding of the project output and quality of resources proposed, the Department may select from the empanelled agencies based on their requirements.

- The consulting resources selected under this type of project will be expected to:

o Work as per the working days and working hours of the concerned Department.

o Maintain attendance as approved by the Department (Bio-metric attendance or Register as decided by the Department).

o Work only from the Department location (on-site) or any other location as approved by the Department

- The payment will necessarily be based on the attendance of the Consultants thus recorded and approved by the Department.

Vi. Payment - e The payment by the Department for Quotation based work orders will be as per the

Payment milestone agreed between the Department and Selected Agency.

e The payment by the Department for Man month based work orders will be monthly, on submission of approved attendance and invoice. Vil. — In case of urgent requirements - In case of urgent requirements, the department may directly select any of the empanelled consultancy firms after finalizing the scope of work. However, the maximum period of such engagement shall not exceed a period of 2 months. Page 6 of 15

--- Source page 7 ---

Government Resolution No.: GAD-IT 080/4/2014-0/0 DIRECTORATE OF IT-DIT (MH)

Note: In this GR, Man-Month means 1 resource working for 1 month (Calendar working days as per

GoM).

This Government Resolution of Maharashtra Government is available at the website

www.maharashtra.gov.in. Reference no. for this is 202310041905383211. This order has been

signed digitally.

By order and in the name of Governor of Maharashtra.

न Digitally signed by

N Ima Nima Arora

Date: 2023.10.05

Arora 44:47:08 405'30

(Ms Nima Arora)

Deputy Secretary & Director

To:

1. Secretary to Governor,

2. Secretary to Chief Minister,

3. Personal Secretary to ALL Ministers/All Ministers of State,

4. Personal Assistant to Chief Secretary,

5. Additional Chief Secretary/Principal Secretary/Secretary of All Departments,

6. Registrar, High Court (Original Side) Mumbai,

7. Registrar, High Court (Appeal Side) Mumbai,

8. Registrar, Lok Ayukta, Up Lok Ayukta, Maharashtra State Mumbai,

9. Secretary, Maharashtra Public Service Commission Mumbai,

10. Secretary, Maharashtra Vidhan Mandal Sachiwalaya Mumbai,

11. Auditor, Accountant General (A&E), Maharashtra Mumbai,

12. Auditor, Accountant General (A&E), Maharashtra Nagpur,

13. Auditor, Accountant General (Audit), Maharashtra Mumbai,

14. Auditor, Accountant General (Audit), Maharashtra Nagpur,

15. Pay and Accounts Officer, Mumbai

16. Residential Audit Officer, Mumbai

17. Director General of Police, Maharashtra State Mumbai

18. All Commissioners of Police,

19. All Divisional Commissioners,

20. Commissioners of All Municipal Corporations,

21. All Collectors,

22. All CEOs of Zilla Parishad/Municipalities,

23. All Departments of Mantralaya,

24. All Head of the Departments and Head of the Offices of Govt. of Maharashtra,

25. Select file.

Page 7 of 15

--- Source page 8 ---

Government Resolution No.: GAD-IT 080/4/2014-0/0 DIRECTORATE OF IT-DIT (MH)

Annexure 1

Contact Details of Empanelled Consulting Companies

। 5.40 | -No

Name of the Company

Contact Details

1.

M/s Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP

Mr. Aloke Agarwal Email: aloagarwal@deloitte.com Ph: 9830277090

M/s Ernst & Young LLP

M/s Grant Thornton India LLP

Mr. Mihir Shah

Email: Mihir.shah@in.ey.com

Ph: 9769292360

Mr. Chetan Bhakkad

Email: Chetan.bhakkad@in.gt.com

Ph: 98202 82155

M/s KPMG Advisory Services Pvt Ltd

Mr. Abhishek Verma

Email: Abhishekverma5@kpmg.com

Ph: 99309 67757

5. M/s PricewaterhouseCoopers Pvt Ltd Mr. Alpesh Kankariya

Email: Alpesh.c.kankariya@pwe.com

Ph: 88055 08880

शि M/s Primus Partners Pvt Ltd Ms. Aarti Harbhajanka

Email: aarti@primuspartners.in

Ph: 91676 64995

Page 8 of 15

--- Source page 9 ---

Government Resolution No.: GAD-IT 080/4/2014-0/0 DIRECTORATE OF IT-DIT (MH)

EEE

Annexure 2 - Policy for Travel, Boarding & Lodging based on NISG Policy

Objective

The objective of this policy is to facilitate a uniform and consistent practice with regard to official travel. The official travel includes travel from place of deployment to field offices and other offices of the department/purchaser as the project may require - necessarily with approval of the Purchaser or the Department.

Applicability

All consulting resources deployed through this contract.

General Principles

1. All official tour should be approved by the department/purchaser.

2. All expenditure incurred while on tour should be within the entitlement limits as defined in this policy and in case of any deviation, consulting resources shall obtain a special approval in writing from the purchaser.

Local Travel

1. For official travel within headquarters, consulting resources would be entitled to claim taxi/auto /any other transport fare based on rates given below. The same rates would apply even if the resource uses his/her own vehicle. No claim would be allowed if the resource is provided with Official transport for local travel.

2. For Journeys performed in own car/taxi: Rs. 19/- per KM

3. For Journeys performed by auto rickshaw, own scooter etc.: Rs 16/- per KM

4. Principal Consultants are entitled to engage an AC car (Indigo or equivalent) on a continuous basis as required during tour outside Head Quarters. All others are entitled to engage AC car (Indica or equivalent) on a point to point basis.

5. Consultants shall record the mileage traveled on the trip sheet.

6. To claim reimbursement for local travel a consulting resource is required to submit bills and vouchers (wherever applicable) along with an excel sheet in a meaningful format with the details to the purchaser within two weeks.

7. Consultants are requested to be judicious while using official transport.

Domestic Travel Expenses

The entitlements of mode of travel shall be as given below:

Band Stay (exclusive of taxes) | Travel Mode

Principal Consultant For State Capitals — Rs. | Economy class by Air

6000 per day For short distances*, journey should, as far

Other Cities excluding as possible, be performed by Train/ Taxi,

State Capitals — Rs. 4000 | whichever is economical

per day

Sr Consultant For State Capitals - Rs. | 2 tier AC Train/ Economy class by Air (as per

5000 per day approval by the Department/Purchaser for

Other Cities excluding the

State Capitals - Rs. 3500 | specific travel)

per day For short distances*, journey should, as far

as possible, be performed by Train/ Taxi,

whichever is economical

Consultant / Associate | For State Capitals — Rs. | 2 tier AC Train/ Economy class by Air (as per

Consultant 3500 per day approval by the Department/Purchaser for

Other Cities excluding the

Page 9 of 15

--- Source page 10 ---

Government Resolution No.: GAD-IT 080/4/2014-0/0 DIRECTORATE OF IT-DIT (MH)

State Capitals - Rs. 3000 | specific travel)

per day For short distances*, journey should, as far as possible, be performed by Train/ Taxi, whichever is economical

Note:

1. Short Distances - For any travel between locations that can be covered in 6 hours or less by train the default mode of travel for all consulting resources is AC Chair Car or II Tier AC as the case may be. Travel by air will be based on administrative exigency and with an approval from the department.

2. Under special circumstances, consulting resources across all levels may also be permitted to

travel economy class by air with the approval of the department.

3. Consulting resources are encouraged to avail Super Saver, Apex or any other schemes

offered by various airlines, so as to incur the lowest expenditure.

Rules:

1. To claim reimbursement, a consulting resource needs to submit the Travel Expense to department along with the relevant bills/vouchers, boarding passes, tickets and hotel bills within two weeks from the date of return from the trip.

2. Submission of hotel bills is mandatory with the Travel Expense claim

3. The reimbursable expense limits on lodging and Daily Allowance, applicable during the

business trip and corresponding to each location category, are set out as per below:

Daily Allowance (DA)

| Band Rate (for all Cities in India) per day |

| Principal Consultant Rs. 900 |

| Sr Consultant Rs. 800 |

| Consultant / Associate Consultant Rs. 700 |

1. Daily Allowance is paid to consulting resources only for outstation official travel.

2. DAwill be paid over and above the other entitlements.

3. The consulting resource is not entitled to D.A. in case of seminars/workshops/Training,

where the organizers bear all expenses towards stay and food.

4. Entitlement is calculated from the scheduled time of departure of the plane/train/bus, up to

the return of the plane/train/bus at the headquarters.

5. A full day will be calculated as 24 hours and for any fraction of a day, half of the above rates

will be applicable.

6. Expenses on telephone calls from the hotel and alcohol shall not be reimbursed.

7. For cities and towns where the department has tie-up with Guest Houses/ Hotels, the

consulting resources are encouraged to use the same as a first preference.

8. Any exceptions to the above entitlements shall be processed subject to the approval of the

department

9. All consulting resources are entitled to claim a Travel Advance for meeting the cost of stay

and local travel.

10. All Travel Advance requests require approvals from the department

General Notes:

1.

2.

DIT, GoM may, notwithstanding the eligibility and terms mentioned above, at its discretion amend, modify or withdraw this policy.

Any deviation from the provisions made in the clauses mentioned in the policy, will require the prior approval.

The consulting resources/department should contact DIT in case of any clarifications.

Page 10 of 15

--- Source page 11 ---

Government Resolution No.: GAD-IT 080/4/2014-0/0 DIRECTORATE OF IT-DIT (MH) EEE Annexure 3 - DIT Portal for Consultancy Work DIT shall operationalize an IT system (Portal) to simplify the process of selection of Consulting Agencies by departments. This portal shall be used for both types of Consultation Selection and subsequent activities: 1. Agency Selection:

e The Departments will be publishing their requirement in this portal which can be accessed by the Empanelled Agencies.

® The Departments will be required to mention the type of quote that is expected (man month based or fixed price based).

e The Departments will be required to mention the type of Selection criteria - whether T1 or

L1 or QCBS based.

7 The Empanelled Agencies can use this information to apply for selection.

2. Status Update:

e Upon selection of the Consultant the portal will issue the Work Order (after due approval by the Department)

e Post issuance of work order, the Selected Agency will be required to update details of the engagement - Work Order issued date, work order expiry date, Names of resources, Cost mentioned in the work order and Description of the project.

e The Selected Agency is responsible for updating this portal on a monthly basis.

7 This proposed portal is envisaged to enable all Departments to understand the nature of the

e-Governance projects being undertaken in the State.

3. Responsibilities of the Empanelled Agencies

e With regards to any new project requested by the Department — the Empanelled Agency should inform the Department/Government entity in case similar work is being done by some other Department/Government entity.

e In this regard each Empanelled Agency needs to be updated about initiatives and projects that are being handled in other Departments/Government entities and update the Department/Government entity which has the current requirement.

e In case, the Selected Agency is found to be working / has worked on duplicate projects (already executed / being executed by same or another Empanelled Agency in another Department/Government entity), then such duplicate work order will be cancelled and the money paid will be recovered by the concerned Departments.

e Till such portal is operationalized by DIT, the above process shall be conducted manually and the Empanelled Agency will be responsible to provide the details of their projects on monthly basis to DIT, so that DIT can circulate the details across to all empaneled agencies.

4. Performance Appraisal This portal will be used to gather and store performance feedback about the Empanelled Agencies and the Deployed Consultants, with regards to the work completed by them under this empanelment. Once in a Quarter - the Selected Agency will need to furnish details of the Work completed, Deliverables provided, Names of the Consultants engaged, Names of the Supervisors etc. The concerned Departments will then provide feedback on the quality of work completed and performance feedback about each deployed resource (only in the case of man month based project). The payment for the Quarter will be made only after getting the feedback. The feedback will be objective in nature and try to capture details of: ® Quality of deliverables, e Usefulness of the deliverables (The advices/strategies provided by the Selected Agency)

Page 11 of 15

--- Source page 12 ---

Government Resolution No.: GAD-IT 080/4/2014-0/0 DIRECTORATE OF IT-DIT (MH) eee e Whether the consultant's approach was correct or not e The outcome of the IT project and the role played by the Selected Consultant Agency in that

outcome. e Any major changes that were required to be performed on top of the work submitted by the Consultant e etc. Based on the above feedback, rating will be assigned to each of the consulting resources deployed. e | the performance is less than 70%, then a penalty of 10% will be applicable on each consulting resource whose rating was less than 70%. e The Agency will need to replace such consulting resource. e The penalty mentioned herein will increase by 10% for each 10% reduction in performance rating. This feedback will be stored in the system and can be accessed by all Departments/entities of Government of Maharashtra that are part of the system and they can use this information to award future projects. Page 12 of 15

--- Source page 13 ---

Government Resolution No.: GAD-IT 080/4/2014-0/0 DIRECTORATE OF IT-DIT (MH)

Annexure 4 - Service Level Agreement The Selected Agency is expected to meet the following Service Levels in the normal course of carrying out the activities as per the detailed Scope of Work. In case of default on any or all such

Service Levels, the Department will reserve the rights to levy Penalties on the Selected Agency.

॥॥॥ Service 11rvice

Expected Service Level

Penalty Level in case of default

1. Deployment of all personnel for project after signing the

Contract with the Purchaser or any subsequent requirement from the Purchaser during the Contract period.

e 2-3 weeks for Principal

Consultants

e 1-2 weeks for Senior Consultants & Consultant

e 1week for Associate

Consultant

10% of Monthly Payment

Due ONLY in the succeeding month (assuming all resources as per work order are billed).

2. Replacement of personnel at request of Purchaser.

Maximum 3 weeks from date of intimation by the Purchaser, including Minimum 2 weeks of handover time. The handover process needs to be documented and duly certified by the department and the selected Agency.

10% of Monthly Payment Due ONLY

in the succeeding

month (assuming all resources as per work order are billed)

3. Replacement of personnel at the request of the Selected Agency.

No replacement within 6

Months.

Maximum 1 replacement within a year, with minimum 2 weeks of handover time. The handover process needs to be documented and duly certified by the department and the selected Agency.

Rs 1,00,000 per

Breach

4. Submission of all monthly status reports to the Department as per format of the Department and update in the Portal (after Portal is launched)

100%

10% of Monthly Payment Due ONLY

in the succeeding month.

Portal status update is applicable once portal is operationalized by DIT

5. Delayed Delivery of milestone deliverable (on account of delay due to bidders performance only and NOT due to delay in receipt of information or approval from department) as per commitment provided in proposal/work order. Applicable only for Quotation based work orders

6. Appraisal rating /

Delay of more than 1 week

70% minimum.

1% of project cost as penalty for

each week of delay. Max 10% of

project cost.

e If the performance is less than

Page 13 of 15

--- Source page 14 ---

Government Resolution No.: GAD-IT 080/4/2014-0/0 DIRECTORATE OF IT-DIT (MH)

eee

Performance rating of the Only Applicable once portal 70%, then a penalty of 10% will

deployed Consultant is operationalized by DIT. be applicable on each consulting

resource whose rating was less

than 70%.

e The Agency will need to replace such consulting resource.

e The penalty mentioned herein

will increase by 10% for each

10% reduction in performance

rating.

1. In situation, where the Selected Agency has incurred a Penalty of equal to or more than Fifteen

(15) % for Three (3) consecutive months at any time during the Contract Period, the Department

reserves the right to either invoke the termination Clause or terminate the Contract altogether.

2. Total Penalty to be capped subject to 30% of the Monthly payments at any time of the Contract. In such situation where the total penalty exceeds the above limit of 30% of the Monthly payments at any time of the Contract, the Purchaser reserves the right to invoke termination clause or terminate the Contract altogether and/or blacklist the Consulting Agency.

Page 14 of 15

--- Source page 15 ---

Government Resolution No.: GAD-IT 080/4/2014-0/0 DIRECTORATE OF IT-DIT (MH)

Annexure 5

CV Format (To be used for providing resumes for profile review)

Proposed Position and SkillSet

(Principal Consultant, SeniorConsultant,

| 1

Consultant, Associate Consultant)

| 2

| Name of Firm

Name of Staff [Insert full

name]

Date of Birth

Education [College/University, Name of

| 5

Degree, Specialization & dates]

Membership of Professional

| oo

Associations / Societies

Summary of key Training

& Certifications

| 7

Countries of Work Experience: [List countries

and names of projects where staff has worked

in the last ten years]

Short description of all projects handled (Name

of project, Name of Customer, Start date - End

date & whether it was for International

Organization/Government)

(10 |

Language Proficiency

(Read/Write/Speak) -(Excellent/Good/Fair) |

11

Employment Record

From [year]:

To [year]:

[Starting with present position, list in reverse

Employer:

order every employment held by staff member

Positions held:

since graduation, giving for each employment

as per format provided]

12

Highlights of assignments Handled and

Name of assignment or project: Year

significant accomplishments

Location:

Client:

Main project features:

Positions held:

Activities performed:

Page 15 of 15